## 28/01/23 14:59:09
@health @huberman


* Try and fit my goals into the 9 main adaptions from training from Galpin.
* Look at core concepts, modifiable variables to achieve these adaptions.

----

* In Galpins first video, he details the main 9 adpations from trainign and how you can assess where you are in these
  things.
* He highlights that you don't have to be peak in all these things, just to be away if you are extremely lacking in
  any.

---

* The second podcasts attempts to address strength and hypertrophy.
* The history of exercise science are the rail roads you're running down and you don't even realise it. The notion that
  you don't want to get too buff despite maybe doing workouts for strength (as an example).
* Defaulting to strength training as optimisng muscle growth, or endurance training as fat loss or cardiovascular
  health. These arent the only things to be after (in terms of adaptations).
* Myocin and actin get thicker with hypertrophy?

### When someone is training for 'strength' what are they training for?

Can you create more force across muscle or muscle groups.
Hypertrophy is a measure of size. Strength a measure of force.
1) what is the ability of the muscle fibers to contract and use force.
2) mechanics, biomechanics, technique (femur length as example).

Major adaptions

* Everything along the chain of human movement.
* Muscle fibers can increase contractile force without increasing size.
* Calcium affinity increases?? Skeletal muscle contractions.
* Kind of just increasing efficiency.

### Strength and Power; 3x5

* Speed, power and strength.
* 3-5 times a week, do 3-5 exercises, 3-5 reps, 3-5 sets, rest 3-5 min and increase week to week about 3-5% (variable).
* Needs to be done at high intent. Regardless of whether you're moving fast or not.
* Can all be done in combination with other stuff. Especially speed and power.
* Linear periodization is training one adaptation at a time.
* Undulating periodization is variation of adaptions.
* Seem to have similar results. If your goal is heavily weighted towards an outcome, then look at linear. But if you
  don't do any cardio with just speed work or power, you might put on weight, lose muscle mass and just generally be
  unfit. Depends on your goal.

## What are my general goals

* Mobility. So how to optimise this.
* Getting better at bjj, so having good performance, staying injury free.
* Increasing relative strength.
* Staying generally lean.
* Functional movement strength and endurance (calisthenics). So being able to do lots of bodyweight exercises.

--- 

* Didn't really get into the more exact parts of breathing etc.
* Need to really establish goals.

---

Andy Galpin on Huberman
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zEYE-vcVKy8
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CyDLbrZK75U
