# 04/04/23 13:59:02
@daily

* One thing that's kind of helped this week (its only tuesday) but just turning my mind to problem I'm trying to solve,
  like I was writing about yesterday, with my model of GDP meaning.
* Today, I had alook at my Youtube history in 2018. It's shockingly bland and heavily concerned with music and fitness.
  I look at my current stage of development as starting really through Covid.
* There's two main things that stick out. One, it's not that I've become suddenly interested in science, or jumped some
  large gap. I think, I've been fairly consistent in interest and this is the result. Two, this consistency of interest
  is nothing special and the results speak for themselves. I think if I'd used spaced repetition or made models of my
  thinking on major topics and appended new information to them I would be further along in my education, whatever that
  means. 
* Really, it's just shockingly bland and unimpressive. Even spending all that time studying Physics I don't have a crazy
  amount to show for it. That doesn't mean it wasn't worth it, it just might mean that for me, that's what it takes to
  get where I am. Of course, there is some benefits. I do feel I've developed as a person but the constant anxiety about
  whether I'm using my time efficiently or not seems kind of pointless given that so much of my time most likely was not
  very focused in the past. 
* I'm not too sure if there's anything actionable from this. Maybe one thing. I should really gather all my writings on
  major topics. It's all a patchwork of random concepts that aren't even in my head. I should address what my actual
  models of these things are, like I did yesterday with how I think about GDP. That way, I can move forward and learn
  with them.
* I'm interested to apply this kind of thinking to learning more about Rome. To see if I'm able to dive in without that
  timeline that I might have tried to work on for Irish history. 
* In saying that, I have always had some interest in something science related. Maybe it doesn't always persist for long
  but if I was on a spectrum of science interest, I'm more interested than the average, I think.
* Some influences persisting:
    * Cosmos, NGT, Carl Sagan.
    * Star Trek
        * Although, only recently have I actually liked it.
    * TBBT.
