# 06/04/23 12:54:19
@daily
@sean-carroll
Reading 'the biggest ideas in the universe' carroll talks about conservation. I'm struggle to follow what it is. If our
assumption is that the natural state of most objects is being at rest. Then how does an arrow move through the air with
nothing pushing it? Why can't we use what Aristotle thought, that the air circulates around and pushes it onwards?

Also, the notion of the spherical cow, or getting rid of all effects is a useful technique for thinking about problems.
It's interesting to think about using it with intuition pumps to twist the knobs, change the names and all that.

One of the classes on emergency response to a nuclear accident. Basically an exercise or generate a system to control
the masses, control their panic. Or, mitigate the damage the public will do to themselves.

## Wicked problems
[@holden karnofsky](@holden-karnofsky)

https://www.cold-takes.com/useful-vices-for-wicked-problems/

Listened to this and can relate to a lot of it. I like the idea of sketching a summary of what it would take to convince
someone of the question you're trying to answer.

* Accepting your ignorance, set up sub problems.

* That answering some of these questions is supposed to be hard. Trying to walk that line.

* The start is often the hardest part. So it's hard to judge from that.

* He talks about the goal of reading being to get back to the writing and getting to some conclusion or hypothesis
confirmation.

* There's also just no way to have a really informed take on everything. I'm seeing this more and more.

* I think just being conscious that the process of learning and testing these hypothesis involves some anti-flow states
where you've to constantly re evaluate your questions.

* Similar to learning something new when studying. Shouldn't always look at some hard productivity measure.
