## 09/02/23 11:04:41
@lecture @IS @py7002

* Three topics for assingment
    * Generators, wind turbines, methods of control. AS generator for a changing wind velocity, phase required for
      grid. 
    * Motors for electric cars. Catering for all driving conditions.
    * Method of generator control in thermal power plants. How do you control the rotation of the generator (synchronous
      generators). This is what we're doing.
    * 10 min power point presentation, 5 min discussion. Assessment is based on content, the fundamental physics
      (analytical fundamentals, quantitative).
    * Due 28th of Feb I think.
* Diodes as one way conductors, need to apply small forward bias voltage to conductor (almost like an energy tax).
* Thyristor, a special diode type, a controllable diode. A diode that can be open or closed by gate connected to
  junction. So that the depletion exists, or doesn't exist.
* Can be used to control the voltage timing. Diode with additional means to control time. So not just having forward
  bias, but also triggering from the gate.
* Very often, opening is uncontrolled but closing is(?).
* With regular diode, voltage is fixed, with thyristor you have additional means to control the frequency of the
  voltage.
* IGBT's used everywhere there's an electric motor.
* Control circuit controls gate action.

----

* Capacitor is charged from three phase power supply.
* [phase shifting](./img/)
* How do we go about timing the phases.
* Point is to switch between positive and negative voltage of capacitor.
* Sparking due to mains power (pulling plug) and it's relation to induction (?), depends on phase of current at that time.
