@study @complex-numbers @py7002
## 31/01/23 14:00:33

* Try and figure out why we need complex numbers for describing AC signals.

---

* From a video I watched this morning. Complex numbers evolve as the set of numbers based on trying to determine the
  roots of 1.
* Because they don't have a relation to the sets of numbers we already know, like rationals, irrational, integers etc.
  they are considered their own class, imaginary.
* Apparently Descartes called them imaginary in a derogatory way. That they shouldn't really be taken seriously.

## 3Blue1Brown Video

* Create an imaginary axis, so that now, we have vectors, with a real part and an imaginary part.
* I think he's kind of building up the operations with complex numbers, this shows that they may be useful (as opposed
  to offering them any grand intuitive meaning).
* i times z (an imaginary number) rotates it in the plane.**Because of i's defining feature**
* Computational mechanism for rotations.
* 3 facts about multiplication in the i plane.
    * z*i is rotation by 90 degrees.
    * z*1 is z.
    * z*(c+d+i) = c*z + d(z*i) distributive property.
* Multiplication works by morphing the plane or grid. So if we have a set of points on the complex plane. Multiplication
  is rotation.
* Unit circle in the imaginary plane.
* j is used instead of i in electrical engineering.
* cos + i sin something is sometimes written as cis of the angle.
* When multiplying complex trig functions, you're rotating by the addition of the angles.

[Summary of video](img/3blue1brownsummary1.jpeg)

Got to midway through the next lecture.

---

* [3Blue1Brown](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5PcpBw5Hbwo)

