# 02/02/23 11:09:34
@daily

@film
* Reading Bordwell book this morning about film. The idea of film form where a pattern is shaped for the viewer.
  Bordwell includes some thematic things in this, like takes on something like UFO will shape the direction of the film.
  In this way an experience is crafted for the consumer. It's purposefully done, a pattern is set up. Like how a novel
  might be a sequence of events with suspense or other emotions attempted to be built into it.

@adam-tooze @economics @chartbook

https://adamtooze.substack.com/p/top-links-158-slowbalization-newbalization

* can't say I full y understand all of what I read but it's relation to things I've been hearing recently about
  de-globalisation, say from Peter Zeihan.
* That the US are taking an aggressive stance against China, essentially dictating development and growth from globalism
  is pretty big. There doesn't seem to be trends away from globalism in the data. So what is happening seems to be a
  psychological shift 
* You've 3 options according to Tooze when faced with this discrepancy
    * It's the economy stupid, as Apple trying to when off China is an example. So that, essentially, economics will win
      out.
    * You have to fundamentally disagree that Washington is serious (this conclusion, or necessity I'm not too sure
      about)
    * >[US policy] its sheer other-worldliness it points to interpretive option number three. We are witnessing not a reversal of
      globalization, or full-scale decoupling, but a continuation of some aspects of familiar pattern, just on
      fundamentally different premises. Crucially, we are no longer in a world of peaceful convergence or level playing
      fields.
> ‘polycrisis’ in a strict sense would mean not simply the adding together of different crises and treating them as one
(the ‘there’s lots of things going on’ definition), but rather a system that is ‘emergent’ out of their interaction and
interrelation—a crisis greater than each specific crisis added together. A world subsumed by polycrisis becomes a kind
of nightmarish ‘emergent system,’ the roots of which are irreducible to a single cause, thus the necessity of those maps
and charts best captured by Krisenbilder ("crisis pictures").

It's interesting as it kind of touches on a philosophy of history. Not 'just history' as we've seen before but you're
claiming some sort of different dynamics are at play that haven't been seen before.

Don't fully understand the conclusion

> Globalisation is more than merely a set of mute economic processes. It was a process tied to, energized by and framed
by institutions that were shaped by a narrative, a teleological narrative of growth, interconnection and convergence.
And this means that you cannot have it both ways. You can’t simultaneously insist that polycrisis is really no more than
history in its “normal” disturbed and violent form and that globalization is proceeding as per normal. 
