## 25/02/23 10:32:10

@daily

# Evolutionary psychology

* I listened to an introductory podcast on this on my run. Just the basic ideas and the notion of it's falsifiability
  and that.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lb8fH9wouYI
* It doesn't answer all the questions. But it interesting to note that our brains don't really want us to think in this
  way. Thinkk it's explained through a Henry James quote where man sees all these things in terms of emotions and
  metaphors and that, which is exactly what genes (if they're the ultimate beneficiaries) would 'want' us to see.
* I started listening to Sean Carroll with David Haig on this too. In terms of explanations and the different types of
  explanations. The purposeful explanation is anathema for some reason in Science. But in general, is what we're taking
  about in terms of explanation for behaviour through genes.
* This is all really around my interest in the evolution of morality. It's attached to those notions of why we feel
  inherently like we should do good? I think Holland might say it's because of Christianity but how do we create some
  sort of causation in this case?

---

It's funny, this week, I've been trying to think about where my mind was at before I pinned dealing with things through
Stoicism. I'm confused as to what I did. I suppose I just drew on other things, but it is odd that now it suddenly has
this character to it again (that is, just going about your day).


## Career

* Writing up cover letter and generally thinking about email.
* Thinking of emailing Aurora energy about possibly doing a modelling project. 
* Also, maybe applying for an energy analyst in Berlin or Austin office (best of luck lol).
* Email Max about what last years students got into.
* Email Dooley about what his view on the energy modelling space are.
