# 30/01/23 09:21:03
@daily

* tough to get up these mornings. Working on strength in the gym at the moment.
* It's a head space thing as well, I kind of assume I'm going to find it difficult, so I find it difficult.

## Contact
@film @contact

Watched this last night from Ebert's great movies list. The thing I took from Ebert's review is the notion that it's
tackling an interesting topic. So less so about anything technical. 

Ellie (Jodie Foster's character) has the steriotypical staunch, rational view on things. That she requires evidence that
she weights etc. but she has an encounter that can't be explained with all the tools she's used to.

At one point, McConaughey's character and Ellie have a chat about Occam's razor or something. She says that out of the
explanation of God, vs the explanation that we made him up so we wouldn't have to feel so small and alone, which seems
more likely. 
McConaughey says he couldn't imagine living in a world where god didn't exists, he wouldn't want to. Ellie says she'd
need proof. McConaughey then asks her

> "Did you love your father?"
> "Yes, very much"
> "Prove it"

These lines stuck out to me for some reason.

The line of science is something I'm interested in. The notion that maybe religion is tuning into some known unknown (as
Zelezny might say). That, maybe meaning requires more than Science. That to live and exist is more about feeling part of
something larger.

McConaughey's character pops up all over the place which makes no fucking sense. He's famous for kind of preaching about
loss of faith in society. That Science isn't offering us what religion does. What does religion offer us then? Does it
offer us more meaning.

At one point he also says that we're all just looking for some kind of Truth. And in this sense, the truth might not be
something that Science can prove or be the verifier of. That means it goes against our rational sense of truth.

These are issues that I believe are tackled by people like Nietzsche in his notions so I'd have to explore a bit
further. The same way in KSR's book 'Red Mars' where meaning intersects with Science, where we have to start analysing
what we're doing here.
