## 08/02/23 14:02:45
@PD @lecture @biofuels @ch7003

## Scope of lifecyclekj

* Need to define depth of analysis.
* Scoping exercises, figuring out what you're interesting in assessing and what are you counting as your product.
* Functional unit, ability of the system to do what it's supposed to do, a way of quantifying usefulness of system?
    * This is useful for comparison. The functional unit, as example, for a biofuel it's functional unit might be energy
      density, mass of the fuel. If the end use was in a car, you might look at the distance this would get a car.
* Scoping is massively important, the processing involved in even the simplest functional units could be a large
  number.

@bayes
* Essentially, trying to build a model, or 'small world' that is manageable and attributable to all we care about in the
  'large world'. Still thinking in stat rethinking terms here.
* Model creation is a pretty universal human thing though right? map and the territory and such. Is there a science
  analogy? In general, it's the goal of our science, to classify and make deterministic the large world. 
* If we think of inference as just kind of the iteration for the next step of the model we have several forms of
  inference Bayesian inference being one right? what are some others?
    * Bayesian models have two defining characteristics.
        * Unknown quantities are defined with distributions, called parameters.
        * Bayes' theorem is used to reallocate probabilities (update values of the parameters based on data).
* > Additionally, models are human-designed representations with very specific goals in mind. As such, it is generally
  more convenient to talk about the adequacy of the model to a given problem than its intrinsic correctness. Models
  exist solely as an aid to a further goal.
* https://bayesiancomputationbook.com/markdown/chp_01.html
* 
    
---

Could something like this be done for EV? Is this done by Hannah Ritchie @energy @economics.
