@knowledge-management
@research
@systems-thinking
@knowledge

26/05/23 15:05:44
Reading: https://etda.libraries.psu.edu/files/final_submissions/2882

Defines a technical systems, as opposed to technology as realting to knowledge management and knowledge management systems.

> …we define technology as knowledge of cause-and-effect relationships embedded in machines and methods….A technical
system is a specific combination of machines and methods employed to produce a desired
outcome.” 

A KMS then aims to coordinate actors in knowledge management towards some system goal (or expected behaviour). This is
similar to the Meadows definition of a system.

Most KMS have two dimensions, you want to balance the dynamism of knowledge growth with the structure and codification of
embodied knowledge in this like databases etc.


>  Hedlund (1994) differentiates the individual/social knowledge dimension into four different levels: individual, small
group, organization, and the inter-organizational domain. He also characterizes the knowledge transfer and
transformation processes that run between types of knowledge and across organizational levels. He identifies three
processes that work within the organization and one that moves knowledge across the organizational boundary. The
first internal process is reflection, comprised of the reciprocal processes of internalization (transferring and
transforming explicit knowledge into tacit knowledge) and articulation (transferring and transforming tacit knowledge
into explicit knowledge). The second internal process is dialogue, comprised of the reciprocal processes of extension
(transferring and transforming knowledge from the individual level through to the interorganizational domain) and
appropriation (transferring and transforming knowledge from the inter-organizational domain through to the individual level). 

## Tacit Knowledge

That knowledge that is hard to express and normally 'captured' through social interaction and repetition. Normally
requires extensive interaction. One of the examples given on the wiki is interpreting a statistical equation funnily
enough.

It pops up too in language learning, without sitting down on front a grammar book. What could also be put down to muscle
memory in something like jiu-jitsu, over time just picking up small tweaks to get desired result.

The key for acquiring this knowledge seems to be _experience_[^2].

The Nonanka-Takeuchi model [^1] postulates 4 modes of knowledge conversion (even though the contradiction that tacit
knowledge cant be _codified_ is present in the literature).

* From tacit to tacit (socialization).
* From tacit to explicit (externalization).
* From explicit to explicit (combination).
* From explicit to tacit (internalizatoin).

The aim of this model is to explain how to convert tacit knowledge into organizational knowledge.

In their book they say that Japanese companies view company knowledge as primarily _tacit_, western management likes
to view a companies knowledge as embedded in numbers and data, a chemical formula, or algorithm to be run. They claim
that knowledge (mental models that people in the company hold) shapes things. 

> Explicit knowledge can easily be "processed" by a computer, transmitted electronically, or stored in database. But the
subjective and intuitive nature of tacit knowledge makes it difficult to process or transmit in any systematic or
logical manner

This conversion of the tacit to explicit in the organisation is apparentely the key to Japanese company success. 

> New knowledge is born in ambiguity and redundancy.

[^1]: Ikujiro Nonaka proposed a model of knowledge creation that explains how tacit knowledge can be converted to
explicit knowledge, both of which can be converted into organisational knowledge.[15] While introduced by Nonaka in
1990,[16] the model was further developed by Hirotaka Takeuchi and is thus known as the Nonaka–Takeuchi model.
[^2]: Maybe read more here https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/0170840600213001
