## 25/01/23 16:15:35
@power-systems @physics @energy @study

Time: 50m

* I've a general understanding now of why we need to look at electricity.
* Think I need to try and get familiar with AC current and devices that it uses (induction motors).
* More generally, power in AC circuits.

---

* An AC emf is denoted by the fact that it's not constant through time (unlike DC).
* It is oscillating between positive and negative peaks. $v(t) = V_msin(wt)$
* We've seen before in (oscillators notes) that an oscillation or circular function is useful in describing something
  periodical. So can imagine the voltage function as drawing a circle.
* For a purely sinusoidal source the average power is $P = \frac{I_m^2R}{2}$.
* What if the source isn't perfectly sinusoidal?
    * Try and find the effective value of a periodic waveform. This is a constant value associated with the waveform. 
    * Like a DC filler for AC ?
    * Similar to the average of a waveform.
    * > "The effective value of a sine wave produces the same I2*R heating effect in a load as we would expect to see if
      the same load was fed by a constant DC supply. "
    * Not fully sure how this works out yet.
* Because $P = \frac{v^2}{R}$ the rms voltage becomes useful
* Rectifier: AC to DC.
* Inverter: DC to AC.

---

* Try and move on to understanding broad strokes of phasors. And then to the induction motor. 
* Need to look at doing something practical.

---

Book: The Principles of Electronic and Electromechanic Power Conversion: A systems approach.
https://www.electronics-tutorials.ws/accircuits/ac-waveform.html
