## 16/02/23 16:45:50
@daily

Might is be fair to consider that I don't actually have a role in energy innovation, or just can't contribute how I was
hoping to?

@sean-carroll @daniel-dennett

Listening to Dan Dennett on podcast. The notion of an explanation that provides predictive power. So a maxwell's demon
type of determinism vs a higher level type (example used is whether someone will bring flowers to dinner). I believe
Dennets position is that both explanations are equivalent.

* Real patterns, if we think about information. How big a file is needed to capture a phenomenon? Oddly, a random
  pixilated image requires the most information to store because you can't define a pattern or predict the next bit.
* A pattern is something that permits you to generalise so that you're better than a coin flip at predicting it (the
  phenomenon).
* Evolution has designed organisms to be pattern solvers.
* https://ruccs.rutgers.edu/images/personal-zenon-pylyshyn/class-info/FP2012/FP2012_readings/Dennett_RealPatterns.pdf
* We exaggerate patterns.
* If we look at AI, it has this vast computational power that will eventually find some sort of pattern in any data.
  Maybe we just had to be a bit smarter and look for patterns more aptly. Although, Dennett says this can generate a lot
  of false positives, seeing patterns that are not there. 
* Patterns may be the real non real distinctions. When we say, is something real? well, could you make money betting on
  it? can it be predicted.

Sara Walker mentioned something that thi nguyen touched on as well about the notion that biological systems created
physics yet physics seemingly underpins it. So maybe there is this pattern between the unreasonable effectiveness on
maths and how we see the world.


