## 01/03/23 06:23:51
@daily

I can somewhat type now!

## Negative Visualisation

I've be reading Will Irvine on Stoicism. He talks about how the Stoics imagined the fickle nature of what they had. The
transience of all that they had in life. This i interesting in that it's hard to not immediately consider it morbid.
That, to allow yourself to be conscious of you without all those people you love and preparing for it really is somewhat
disgraceful. I don't know if it detracts from how much you love or care about people though.

I find it's a nice notion for daily things you might do. To appreciate them. Imagine they didn't exists, this is one of
the main things Irvine speaks about with Stoicism. That, you have to reverse the Hedonic treadmill and appreciate what
you already have.

## Learning Latin

I've gotten this notion again that I might try and learn latin. I'm not really too sure why. I like the idea of learning
a language, it's almost like an instruction set for a computer.
I might be better off focusing on language in general. Although, the notion of getting into Roman history through latin
sounds cool.

## Conversational backpacks

Really starting to get into "Elephant in the Brain" again. Especially now if I can utilise Anki.
Hanson and Simler talk about the analogy of a backpack of tools for conversation. That we're each trying to show
appropriate tools for the situation and signal our worth in how unique or creative what we show is.


## Joint Probability Distribution

One of the things holding me up a small bit in stat rethinking is how we can have distributions as arguments to
distributions.

Might look at doing MIT opencourseware on probability.
