## 02/02/23 11:00:18
@lecture @IS @py7002

* Windings of each stator affect the others (in terms of inducing voltage) not just the rotor.
* If angular velocity of rotor and stator are the same, there is no change in flux, no torque.
* In a single loop, you have a pulsating torque, can be smoothed by adding more loops (squirrel cage).
* Slip speed is the speed of the magnetic field relative to the rotor.
* ag stands for 'air gap'.

### What is the effect of the rotor on the stator

* By inducing current back into the stator.
* At what frequency does the rotor induce current back into the stator?
    * In the frame of the rotor, if magnetic field is ahead of you at 2Hz so 2 revolutions per second. If the rotor is
      rotating at 48 revolutions per sec, then in a non relative frame the induced current is 50Hz.
    * Makes sense, in the stationary frame.
* Equivalent circuit, for each winding. 
* Mutual interaction between windings, given by $L_m$.
* $R_r$ resistance of the rotor (aggregate).
* Angle between $V_s$ and $I_s$ current in inductor is shifted $\pi / 2$ from the voltage.
* $P_{ag}$ power transferred from stator into rotor.
* $R_r$ is losses in power in windings and the transfer of mechanical energy into the rotor.
* The pedagogy is all over the place, like we're doing this after just learning phasors with Dmcc.
* $I_r$ is the current induced in the stator, by the rotating rotor.
* $V_s$ is voltage drop induced in stator and $E_{ag}$
    * Kirchoffs law apparentely. Work around first loop 
* Influence of rotor on stator is the main factor, under normal conditions (the right hand circuit in the equivalent
  circuit).
* Vast majority of motors operate with frequency adjuster (as this can affect rotations of rotor).
* Pushing frequency of mains, current induced goes down. 
* I hate when lecturers ask questions while not asking them.
* Quick detour into how the steam engine powered the British empire in the 19th century.

