## 31/01/23 09:28:24
@daily @tom-holland

* 'Dominon' details how the notion of evolution changed the power dynamics in human society. How, the strong prevail,
  not the 'meek'.
* That we are 'animals' fundamentally, the notion that 'God is dead' is that, like De Sade, we made these things up.
  There's nothing inherent in us that makes us good or just. I think this is the interesting crossover that I'm hoping
  to get from Azar Gat's 'War'. Whether this can be claimed to be true. I think it is on a service level, but mainly
  because its an evolutionary calculus lense, rather than the morals and values lense we would prefer. @azar-gat
* It's also interesting how he details the notion that Science became the antithesis of religion, and the myth of the
  'Dark Ages' following from that. As opposed to it being considered a new extension of Christian thought.
* Earlier yesterday, I was listened to Michael Sugrue on the Epic of Gilgamesh. He talks about how our conception of the
  'ego' might have been developed over time. That really old stories like the epic are the best glimpses into this
  earlier formation of ourselves essentially.
* The epic also provides an idea about a big picture, we needed a god that wasn't fallible, that promised to be
  consistent with us if we did this, or that. That's what he says the Covenant with Moses is. It's finally this
  benevolent God. 

## More thoughts on Contact 
@contact @film 

* I knew I thought of something last night, I just can't really remember.

## James Joyce

* I really think I'm missing something here. His works just seem like such a slog. Need to keep working on it I suppose.
