## 28/01/23 07:39:57
@physics @electromagnetism @induction @study

Time: 1hr 30m

* How do I get a heuristic to look at a magnetic field and 'know' what would happen if rotar placed in it?
    * My current thinking is to imagine the magnetic moment and think off how it will try and align with the magnetic field.
    * Torque can be determine from the cross product of the moment and the magnetic field.
 
---

* "Magnetic fields are important in power conversion because they make it possible for one electrical circuit to
  exchange energy with another and, as shown in later chapters, make it possible to vonvert electrical energy into
  mechanical energy"
* Maybe just something to try and look out for.
* Magnetic flux vs magnetic field strength?
    * The relationship between the two is not linear. 
    * Flux is the magnetic field strength acting in a specific area.
    * I assume it's dependent on superposition of magnetic forces.
    * An example in the book is that with a copper coin the magnetic flux is low i.e. that the field acting
      perpendicular to the copper coin in it's area is very low (because of cancellation from the copper?).
    * Then, if it's put near a steel washer the opposite is the case, the flux is high, so the field in an area
      perpendicular to that area are high.

## Magnetic Field Toroid

* Generally focused on the magnetic field lines that are 'inside' the loop.
* Bending the solenoid into a circle allows the creation of a circular magnetic field.

## Solenoids

* Issues I've been having with fields around solenoids seem to be answered in 29 of Halliday.
* The cancelling of magnetic fields, and the idea of an ideal solenoid, acting as an infinitely long wire.

----

## Self Inductance 

* Faraday's law kind of acts like friction. 
* When a current is put through a wire, an emf opposing this voltage is generated for an instant.
* This generates as induced current in the opposite direction.

## Magnetic Permeability

* Think this is important to understand in relation to flux vs strength and to inductance.
* As I understand it, it's a damping constant between the magnetic field strength and what's actually experienced in a
  section of the material.
* Ability of matter to create internal magnetic fields.

---

Book: The Principles of Electronic and Electromechanic Power Conversion: A systems approach.
Book: Halliday
