@energy @research @ireland

## 17/04/23 13:58:51

* Seems a fairly banal bill.
* A funding agency that recognising 'excellence' in different disciplines. Mentioned in doc but not explained, trying to
  give that definition.
* Making sure the governence structure is representative and inclusive.
* Board should be active researches from wide range disciplines. Not really clear in bill.
* Industry focused research seems to have taken precendence in the last few years (from SFI). The new body needs to re
  orientate back to this. Heavily Science focused right?
* Important to support career stage.
* Phd representative doesn't feel that decisions are being made fairly really, they're being lobbied. That research
  that's not the production of some consumable is not happening.
    * Neglect of the humanities. 
    * This guy is going hard in the paint. He's making the case for the humanities really, what knowledge in this field
      is.
    * That we live in history and to shape it properly or to learn to shape it is what the humanities offers.
    * Wants to focus on organizing, I suppose the fear in a joint council is that this wont be understood by the general
      audience that it means the slow decline of humanities. The mission is one of explaining why this research is
      important.
    * Should be fundamental part of work, to communicate why your research matters. I'm not too sure about this. 
    * This notion of what it's for kind of is just the same thinking they're afraid of, but at the same time, maybe
      thats it. That we know people think this way, so that those in the humanities must communicate on this political
      level.
* shouldn't let competitive strength cloud judgement. Need to get an idea of values. Not just a lever for national
  economic development. 
* So much talking, just get on with it..
* Some good points I suppose about creative research, and also that disciplines dont have to be so discrete. That the
  humanities doesn't have to think of itself as this segregated discipline.
* don't think it's as much q and a as people on their soap box.
* Budget is important, we need to spend EU average (percentage of gdp) on budget.
