---
tags: [david-perell]
---
# 2021-07-26

## Daily checklist

* [ ]

## Notes

* [Saving Liberal Arts](https://perell.com/essay/saving-the-liberal-arts/)
    * Interesting article by this guy david perell, endorsed by tommy collison too.
    * Romans as uncultured or purely utilitarian. Draws parallels possibly to the modern day. We have all this stuff but
      do we really know anything. Its a similar thought I've had about meeting someone from the past maybe any time
      after the middle ages in Europe or earlier elsewhere. If we were to really talk about human issues, about life as
      its put, we'd have little more to offer them in the centuries gone by, unless we were learned, and could detail
      maybe philosophical advances, still not really answers though.
    * "in the modern world, we’ve conflated the kind of education you need to make money with the kind you need to be
      civilized. "
    * Goes on to point out that making a degree a pre req for a 'respectable' life puts power in the college (so they
      charge exorbitant fees)
    * Details what he envisions the two tracts (professional and civilized) to be.
    * Very similar path of getting the useful more means based education over with and then focusing on the liberal arts
      as an end in itself. I would agree too that life experience is needed to engage with some historical writings and
      philosophy.
* Content creation to show interest
    * Thermodynamics; what is energy; what is combustion

