---
title:
tags: Bezos
---
* [X] Try and get a functional test for [ISD 677](ISD-677)
* [X] Print out Bike to work scheme form
    * [X] check for opening times of bike shops
    * [X] Messaged Rothar
* [ ] Possible post grad courses
* [X] Order shoes
    * [X] Check size of current Nike shoe and order NB ones

## Articles

* [The memo (apparently a famous memo by Bezos)](https://chrislaing.net/blog/the-memo/)
    * Reduction of inter process communication
    > "In our example, the API Mandate requires the team responsible for listings on the website to expose the things
    > that their team does as an API, rather than requiring interpersonal communication. You want a new listing?"
    * > For transformations to take hold, they need to be based on a system of
      > mechanisms that incentivise every individual or unit to independently
      > reinforce the system. The systematic implications of the API Mandate are
      > now clear, but the effectiveness of the system relies on incentive
      mechanisms to ensure participation.
* "Mount Zero, an independent bookstore in the Sheung Wan district of Hong Kong. Over the front door, a message is
  spelled out in tiles: “Ideas are bulletproof.”"
* [How to make the poor less poor, homeless mans take](https://www.eclogiselle.com/p/policies-that-make-poor-less-poor.html)
    * "Generally speaking, if you wish to help the poor or to reduce poverty, you should be looking to help ordinary people do some of the following things:
    Access housing that is within their budget.
            Get to where they need to go conveniently and inexpensively.
            Get access to education, training and credentialing.
            Get access to earned income.
            Get access to things that support their health, whether that is
            nutritious food, adequate exercise, clean air or medical treatment.
    * You have to consciously and intentionally find ways to define what needs
      are not being met and meet those needs without using means testing per se
      as the metric by which poor people get served.





## Notes

* Paid about 260e for a load of shit on Amazon! Hopefully I don't regret it!
