---
tags: [Mars, history]
---
# 2021-07-22

## Daily checklist

* [ ]

## Notes

* Reading excellet wait but why post on [colonizing mars](https://waitbutwhy.com/2015/08/how-and-why-spacex-will-colonize-mars.html/2) defintely one to come back too
    * "And that’s why the first IntelligenceWatch alert said that life here had reached “fetal intelligence”—because looked
      at through a zoomed-out lens, reaching initial intelligence is the conception of a fetus, but only reaching the God
      Point will determine whether there will be a miscarriage or the birth of a new long-term intelligent species. Those
      species who hit the God Point, then enter the chaos that inevitably ensues, and somehow come out alive on the other
      side have “made it through,” and they can officially join the universe’s community of grown-up, immortal, intelligent
      species."
    * "There has to be an intersection of sets of people who wish to go to Mars and people who can afford to go to Mars,
      and if that intersection of sets equals a number of people necessary to make Mars self-sustaining, that’s the
      critical solution." - Musk. In a sense here, Musk is targetting rich people. But it doesn't really matter. To him
      its about getting people there as a back up for civilization. Who it is, right now, is not important.
* What if alt history video on why were all sad https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IHK38Xhy_ME
    * lack of beauty in the world is an interesting point. The skylines of all major cities being the same.
    * Theres also the engagement economy that is really taking over capitalism now. It reduces our connection to those
      around us and paired with the above we lose our connection to our environment.
    * Theres also an interesting point about funding a giant building to commemorate the city of Philadelphia (just an
      example used). This would become political ammo as opposed to building something that might represent more than
      our hum drum existence at the moment, aspire to something bigger that ourselves is something I think thats missing
      and specifically, geared towards community, humanity, us. That building would represent the expression of a city
      at a particular place in time (once again, just an example) not to say 'look how great we are' but 'this is us, we
      care about the place we're currently in and we all agreed to make this to represent that' future humans might say,
      'wow what a nice community that would have been, how do we see our community at the moment, how do we express
      ourselves'.
    * I think the dating app point is interesting too. I don't know if a lot of people really like it but it has a huge
      network effect.
    * Lack of freedom to explore the world, subtle subjugation to norms (cultural, like working for a company) and over
      protection.
    * The state, ideology towards easier control of people (taxable entities etc.)
