# 2021-07-19

## Daily checklist

* [X] Read all open articles
* [ ] Tomorrow https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IpQ2zi6gd_w

## Notes

* Climate change how to solve it. Economic shift, Noam Chomsky.
* NYT article on Giannis free throws. Just let it go, similar to taking free in football. Its all repetition and you
  have to have confidence in what you are able to do. Not trying to place it in the basket. Or particular control the
  exact arc of the football (in football).
* Building a town (https://wrathofgnon.substack.com/p/how-to-build-a-small-town-in-texas?r=hv52d&utm_campaign=post&utm_medium=email&utm_source=twitter)
    * Existing paths and trees should be left "History is in short supply in new developments, and interesting stories
      can be woven around something as mundane as an abandoned old cart or well"
    * "The rural area (the “market garden zone”) surrounding the town out to a radius of one mile should be devoted more
      or less entirely to food production in some form, and it should be farmed primarily by the people living in town
      on a professional or hobby level "
    * The second belt, is the farm zone. Here I would recommend, if not enough farmers could be found, to offer the land
      at good prices to Amish families to farm. 800 acres is enough for 10 farms.  
    * Initial settlers will be the builders (and needs for builders) of the town.
    * Buildings should be owner occupied
    * "when building anything, build on the least attractive part and improve it while keeping the views of the more
      beautiful parts intact."
* Interesting conversation with Tyler Cowen
    * Increasing conformity, Tyler Cowen, with the need of smaller countries to interact with larger ones. Ireland is a
      classic example but also culturally similar groupings like all Facebook workers (or Workday) etc.
        * Having carbon tax is probably less of an influencer than getting science and the tech world to work better as the
          US becomes less of a polluter. Need cheap things for growing countries.
    * Signal issue blogs (penal reform etc. ) this could be part of the 'good citizen' thing. Still figuring out how to
      meaningfully contribute 8hrs of my day is still an issue
    * Books overrated way to learn new things. Read more and more in clusters
* [Abundance mindset](https://sotonye.substack.com/p/the-architecture-of-tomorrow-an-interview)
    * A scarcity mindset as one where there is never enough. People are trying to take things from you, what they have is
      what you don't have. As opposed to abundance mindset, that there is enough and that the usefulness is derived from
      others having the same.
    * "More importantly, it turns out that there are no wasted genuine attempts to make a contribution — even if you
      overestimate your own talents and abilities in that particular area or lose long-term interest — because you learn
      so much with every attempt."
    * He also wanted to be a rapper.
    * "Just pick an area where you are excited to contribute and give it your all"

# Work

* Package up repo, create a release (version no.) scylla code manifest with component version. Envops use this to patch
  scylla cust environments. Tar ball for each envrionment with scylla code and manifest that points to helm chart for
  each component
