---
title: 2021-06-24
tags: Marc-Andreesen
---
# 2021-06-24

## Daily checklist

* [ ]

# Articles

* [Britney Spears battling with her father](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/22/arts/music/britney-spears-conservatorship.html?action=click&module=Top%20Stories&pgtype=Homepage)
    * Her father seems to have had a very tough upbringing. It always amazes me
      that people can be struggling in the states.  That there are dead end
      towns with no opportunities

* [Marc andreesen interview]()
    * Increasing access to fundamental goods. Health care, housing and
      education prices are going up while technology is supposed to be driving
      prices down, why is this, could be an interesting areas :thoughts:career:
    * > I am very optimistic about the future of tech, at least in the domains
      where software-driven innovation is allowed.
    * "Software is a lever on the real world" > Software is alchemy that turns
      bytes into actions by and on atoms. It’s the closest thing we have to
      magic.
    * Argues that software should start touching the above areas that the
      majority of people still struggle to get access to.
    * His take on crypto is also very interesting. :Crypto: represents the
      right wing side of tech. The shift in architecture is the idea of
      distributed consensus
        * worth thinking about the shift in incentive structures
        * > Consider also what this means for incentives. Up until now,
          collaborative human effort online either took the
          form of a literal adoption of real-world corporate norms -- a company
          with a web site -- or an open source
          project like Linux that had no money directly attached. With crypto,
          you can now create thousands of new kinds of incentive systems for
          collaborative work online, since participants in a crypto project can
          get paid directly without a real-world company even needing to exist.
          As great as open source software development has been, far more
          people are willing to do far more things for money than for free, and
          all of a sudden all those things become possible and even easy to do.
          Again, it will take 30 years to work through the consequences of
          this, but I don’t think it’s crazy that this could be a
          civilizational shift in how people work and get paid.

## Notes

* Filter on reason wavefront. Reason error or CrashLoopBackoff

