---
tags: [career, environment, energy, sustainability]
---
# 2021-09-09

## Daily checklist

* [ ]

## Notes

* [MIT fusion energy](https://news.mit.edu/2021/MIT-CFS-major-advance-toward-fusion-energy-0908)
    * "The major innovation in the MIT-CFS fusion design is the use of high-temperature superconductors, which enable a
      much stronger magnetic field in a smaller space."
    * "makes it possible to achieve a higher magnetic field in a smaller device, equaling the performance that would be
      achieved in an apparatus 40 times larger in volume using conventional low-temperature superconducting magnets.
      That leap in power versus size is the key element in ARC’s revolutionary design"
    * This is exactly one step in the process described in Smil's books about efficiency gains. A 40 times decrease in
      volume
    * What does it mean to produce net power?
* [map a career change](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iOCboIdoJzE)
    * Vision board
        * A work in progress. How do I envision myself
    * 4 questions about yourself
        * What are my abilities
        * What are my personality traits?
        * What are my interests?
        * What are my values? What do I value?
    * Not a direct path
    * Action plan after working (however long it takes on vision board)
    * Springboard course
    * What top skills are you transferring over on your new journey?
    * How will who I am and what I believe transfer?
    * How will my current skills transfer?
* [reducing fertilizer use](https://ourworldindata.org/reducing-fertilizer-use)
    * "In the decade from 2005 to 2015, average yields of maize, rice and wheat increased by around 11%. At the same time,
      nitrogen fertilizer use decreased by around one-sixth. By producing more crops and needing less fertilizer, this
      experiment provided an economic return of US$12.2 billion. This wasn’t achieved through major technological
      innovations or policy changes: it involved educating and training farmers on good management practices."
* What is the energy problem?
    * Fact: A rise in GHG makes our climate unstable
    * The per energy death rate is highest with fossil fuels
    * Fact: Non renewable, it is inevitable that we must switch
    * This problem can only get worse as the current 'developed' life is reached by more developing nations. This
      developed life is built on un-sustainable energy usage
    * Claim: There is too much of a focus on electricity. End use is either largely industrial (China), or transport (US)
        * Industrial de carbonisation is underrated
    * Claim: This is the biggest issue of our time
    * Need new technologies
    * [Energy Innovation](https://www.bbvaopenmind.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/BBVA-OPenMind-Innovation-and-Climate-Change-Edward-S-Rubin.pdf.pdf)
        * :energy:
        * Its a massively complex issue requiring a lot of work. Any area require tweaks from all angles. Example
          cement. Sequester carbon, or completely change process, along with improving longevity.
        * Puts large stock in adoption and dispersion being important. Maybe its not always a given.
        * "Thus, to achieve the large reductions in greenhouse gas emissions needed to reduce the risks of climate
          change, a broad portfolio of policies is required—not only to foster technological innovation, but also the
          subsequent adoption of new technologies by a large range of actors including individuals, governments, and
          firms of all size"
        * "This suggests that a significant increase in private-sector investment in R&D will be needed to develop and
          commercialize new low-emission technologies to address climate change. In turn, government policies must
          provide the signals and potential markets needed to stimulate private-sector investment in R&D to reduce
          greenhouse gas emissions."

