---
title: 2021-07-05
tags: [werner-herzog, scott-sumners]
---

# 2021-07-05

## Daily checklist

* [X] File expenses for wifi and fitness and on call
* [ ] register for bike insurance

## Notes

* Scott Sumners money articles
    * "Pins down nominal variables (like price level)"
    * Money as a measuring stick of value. Similar to a unit. Uses the example of measuring growth but if the unit was
      changing. You might see some absolute change, but normalised or real change (when the initial unit is used) would
      be different.
    * Inflation as the units of money being changed. If you offered someone 2 units of wheat for work over 6 months
      where at any point you could choose the unit.
    * "Because money is the good in terms of which all other goods are priced, changes in the value of money are associated
      with changes in the price level, and in other nominal variables as well. "
* Listening to various Werner Herzog. He seems like a really smart person. Reads a lot. I think Herzog tries to tap into
  the loneliness with the land. Feels like a better explanation of thoughts I've had about distant far off places.
    * The peregrine. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n4b7vBWwbuo

## Work

### ISD-685

* Would be nice to be able to run customer scenarios easily. Testing out different users builds (possibly needed for
  debugging in the future?). If possible, maybe some docs on this.
* Could look at setting up build jobs designed to interact with production where a build file template could be
  provided as a parameter?.
* Could we have quick builds for quick changes?
* Counter point would be that some small change could have other unexpected consequences.
* What needs to be improved with testing?
    * Do we need faster tests?
* User case from this morning
