---
tags: [beginning-of-infinity, ed-glaser, housing]
---
# 2021-09-13

## Daily checklist

* [X] Read sam enright beginning of infinity review
* [ ] Read LW how much evidence does it take.
* [X] Economic workshop talk

## Notes

* I listened to raitonally speaking podcast about "being a data detective", noticing your bias analysisng things. Main
  thing I think is the importance of data infrastructure (which got me thinking about construction costs in Ireland) and
  trying to find alternative hypothesis for any claim you make and trying to rationalise them if possible.
* Beginning of infinity review
    * "The real way that we generate explanations about the world, according to Deutsch, is that we conjecture.". There is
      no definite. Generating good explanations is this iterative process. As opposed to this inductive view of how the
      world works? Deutsch's view is that knowledge is not justified by induction (or anything, for that matter)
      "the recognition that there are no authoritative sources of knowledge, nor any reliable means of justifying ideas as
      being true or probable – is called fallibilism"
    * “All observation is theory-laden”, . If you had no pre-existing ideas or expectations, you wouldn’t know how to
      interpret your senses.
    * Universality is important for the jump to unbounded knowledge "there is nothing to humans what trigonometry is to
      a chimp". This is also where the champagne bottle cork popping could entail the explanation of the whole universe
    * "The whole of biological evolution was but a preface to the main story of evolution, the evolution of memes.”
* Ed Glaser talk
    * Cities leading to more happiness (past a certain point)
    * "Cities are forges of capital" not necessarily somewhere you instantly gain wealth.
    * The places that are expensive don't build a lot, its fundamental.
    * Ed loses the plot at the 15 minute city lol, because he thinks it leads to segregation. Chill Ed.
    * 15 min city was something Alice from wef was talking about
* Density is not equivalent to height, consistent density. Infrastructure is more environmentally sustainable. New York
  vs Barcelona
* Medellin, ability to connect the urban to the business district
* Economic forum, bio diversity initiative then just in general the future for cities.
* "Suburbs and towns may have to be more 'workable' and cities more 'livable'", through regulatory and market
  adjustments
* National planning priorities
    * Strenthen regions outside of Dublin
    * Leveraging quailities..?
    * ...
* Bear the cost of living in rurals areas as a society, interesting, there might be no free lunch
* David Hume, The 'is-ought' problem. If a reasoner only has access to factual (positive) statements they can not infer
  anything moralistic (normative). How can an 'ought' be derived from an 'is'
* [Try to be the best you, not somebody else, there is no blueprint for you](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6FgLuTH1mro)
