---
tags: [housing, john-van-reenen, career]
---
# 2021-09-14

## Daily checklist

* [X] Econ workshop talk

## Notes

* [Tyler Cowen can read 5 books a day wtf](https://www.driverlesscrocodile.com/books-and-recommendations/tyler-cowen-on-reading-fast-reading-well-and-reading-widely/)
    * "The best reading is focused reading, when you’re trying to solve some kind of problem."
    * Mostly your clustering books to learn about an area or topic.
* I really don't know what the fuck is going on with housing
* John Van Reenen
    * Pushing productivity growth. Ireland lags in indigenous productivity growth
    * The right kind of productivity growth. Innovation and Diffusion
    * TFP is reducing in Europer ever since the 70's
    * Defending Growth
        * Faster productivity growth and wages tend to go together
        * Doesn't mean more inequality
        * Dealing with climate change requires innovation, so new tech. More effecient production of things
    * The story of growth is a story of innovation rather than accumulation of people and capital. Robert Solow
    * Pushing frontier of knowledge or innovation is important, or how to use current innovation and diffuse it.
    * Reducing mis allocation of capital to less productive firms
    * Sources of growth
        * Technology
        * Management practices
        * Often the technology itself doesn't create much productivity. e.g. Electricity required new infrastructure to
        make use of it. There were organisational changes too.
    * He's been trying to systematically collect more data on management
    * Policies towards innovation management. So looking at the data (increasing competition as example)
    * Increasing human capital supply; R&D tax credits
    * Removing demographic and racial barriers.
    * Against tax breaks on inheritence of business assets as it encourages poor management productivity. Reduces
    managerial quality
* How Ireland Changed in the 20th century, Frances Ruane
    * Value chain integration
        * We looked at sub supply for local irish companies, rate of diffusion may have been affected as large companies
        could sub supply from anywhere
    * Ireland weak spatial planning?
    * There is a national competitively and productivity council
* [How to stop worrying what other people think of you]()
    * "When I’m at my best, what beliefs lie just beneath the surface of my thoughts and actions?

        Who are people that demonstrate characteristics and qualities that are in alignment with mine?

        What are those qualities?

        What are your favorite quotes? Your favorite words?"
    * Circle the words that stand out. Come up with a mantra based on this
* :career: Ecological economics
* [In a shocking turn of events, lack of housing is sub optimal and is a cause of more problems](https://www.worksinprogress.co/issue/the-housing-theory-of-everything/)
    * "This means that many people are working in less productive jobs than they could if it was easier for them to move to
    more productive places. Their wages and productivity are lower and it’s harder for highly productive businesses to hire
    them. That means people who do get to live in these high-productivity places are less productive than they could be,
    because they are less able to combine their skills with the complementary skills of the people who have been priced
    out."
