---
tags: [politics, philosophy, China]
---
# 2021-08-19

## Daily checklist

* [X] Do expenses
* [ ] Create that ticket

## Notes

* It could be worth noting in the history of Science why new ideas 'win'
* Interesting post about mathematical ability. https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/AXXaXJvf7WcTessog/the-truth-about-mathematical-ability
    * "The finding that people who are good at one cognitive task tend to be good at another is based on the study of people
      of average intelligence. It becomes less and less true as you look at people of progressively higher intelligence.
      Twice exceptional children are not very rare amongst intellectually gifted children.  "
        * Twice exceptional here is referring to being intelligent with some learning disability
        * What is also interesting is some of the learning disabilities mentioned related to information processing or
          visualisation issues, I wonder if I slightly suffer from some of these?
        * "speed and accuracy are not the essence of mathematical ability."
        * Relates to an interesting Grothendieck whom I should do some reading on
* New ways of looking at growth, taking into account sustainability.
* Tyler Cowen the great stagnation, the changes 20 years after the war are much larger than the 70s + https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_93CXTt2K7c
    * We're not making as rapid progress
    * Like Some sort of progress out of Star Trek, why?
    * We're not coming up with innovation that significantly improves lives
    * What happened in 1973? More of economy moved into education and healthcare
        * A lot of knowledge becoming specialised. Innovation at the margins
    * More respect for scientists in the past
    * It gives me hope that maybe its really important for growth to have knowledge of lots of areas.
* Why not just maximise my income and devote as much as I can to charity? Is it pointless to go on some path I care
  about (that may not exist?), is it selfish?. Scott Alexander, not owing anything to society?
* [What a war with China might look like](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/BY5f7iEzHtEDJLXS7/prediction-what-war-between-the-usa-and-china-would-look)
    * "China's interests have been basically unchanged since 1978. Its primary objective is to maintain internal
      domestic stability i.e. prevent regime change. There are two ways of keeping its population under control: via a
      police state and via economic development. The stronger it's police state the less economic development is
      necessary and vice versa. China's economic growth is slowing as its east cost gets closer to a Western standard of
      living."
    * "China's geopolitical interests mostly revolve around securing markets and raw materials to fuel its economic
      development. This is the motivation behind 一带一路 (the Belt and Road Initiative)." Correlates with the talk from
      the former NYT reporter on curiosity stream.
    * "The advantage to America is it has allies to call upon. The disadvantage to America is it has allies it must
      coordinate with and defend. " Ironic with the lost of credibility in Afghanistan.
    * China's GDP and PPP will surpass the US, essentially, it will become wealthier than the US?
    * China doesn't necessarily want to conquer the globe, China is already tough to govern on its own never mind the
      world
    * US and China are not 'expansionary' powers
* Bayesian Thinking
    * Remember your priors (Tom is shy, likelihood he does business or maths even tough lots more business students)
    * What if I were wrong, what would I expect to see then.
    * Update incrementally. Small pieces of evidence, snowflakes of evidence accumulating

# Work

* possible get a test Grid X pool
* create Jira for issue
* Could we add the cluster target in the annotation?
* The issue is though that if we specify that all dev or all whatever env should use the staging API, it won't just be
  used then for our testing purposes
* Uses token instead of TLS cert for kube config
* Could instantiate the event router with staging or prod based on the cluster its in.
