---
tags: [thoughts, life, john-salvatier]
---
It might make sense to apply the training thinking to the volume of good work I get done. To treat hard days of work like RPE's and have some volume for a week to aim for.


[[thoughts]]
Reading http://johnsalvatier.org/blog/2017/reality-has-a-surprising-amount-of-detail

> This means it’s really easy to get _stuck_. Stuck in your current way of seeing and thinking about things. Frames are made out of the details that seem important to you. The important details you haven’t noticed are invisible to you, and the details you _have_ noticed seem completely obvious and you see right through them. This all makes makes it difficult to imagine how you could be missing something important.

There is also a paragraph about how the author disagreed with their father wrt how to design a stairs. The author saw
this trigonometric complexity whereas his father viewed it from the praciticality viewpoint. It reminded me of [[Pirsig]]
in that notion of viewing the technical details or viewing a problem. There's biolical affects that impact how someone
perceives a problem.

This intersection between the complexity of reality, maintaining dualistic thoughts and Pirsigs viewpoint on how people
perceive problems and how they tackle them is interesting. This balance between appreciating a romantic, holistic view
of the world and the finer detail.

Back to this post, the notion of framing is powerful. This is something I've gravitated towards with 'design-thinking'
as a practice in escaping ones own framing. The changes of our own expectations and models about how a system works and
trying to occupy a different perspective.

[[2023-11-15]]
I read a post earlier this week that talks about that buddist notion of mountains being mountains and rivers being
rivers. To really observe them. Similarly, the author talks about observing your own thinking in reaction to things.

Observe a flower, observe others' beliefs that you think are wrong and analyse what frames they hold for such a thing to
be the case.

Seek detail you would not normally notice about the world.

Observe your own frames.
