---
tags: [daniel-schmachtenburger]
---
Listening to [[Daniel Schmachtenburger]] today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4kBoLVvoqVY&t=2442s

His intensity, I believe is important. It feels like we shouldn't be just 'taking it easy' we need to get out of the
novelty economy etc.

He views the energy crisis and climate change as a symptom of something much broader. As a kind of psychosis. He
compares our possible disposition today to that of Nazis' in the Nuremburg trials or to Chinese soldiers during Mao
regime. That we don't really know what we're doing we're just operating off local incentives, like getting food and
money for the day.


I think foundationally, he sees markets as guiding this. Money is the most 'optionality thing' we have. But it only
captures the value of measurable things. It fails to capture things you'll care about on your deathbed. This doesn't
seem that crazy a thought. I think the Game Theoretic aspects he evokes as depth to why we're in this situation.

It broadly aligns with the notion of excuses. Some times you can push yourself too far but I think I internalise this
as, oh pushing myself is wrong. Rather than saying I need to keep pushing myself just be mindful of my own limitations
in how hard I can do it, not in the fact that i shouldn't do it.

We live in this amazing world. We can't let things run away from us. We have to focus on things that we feel actually
matter. It vibes with [[Bruno Latour]] notion of modernity. If we really look at ourselves, how modern are we.


