---
title: 24/11/23
date: Fri Nov 24 08:48:25 2023
tags: [ireland, politics, ai]
---

If I believe software will be automated in the coming years. How am I to make money? How do I transition to something
useful?

Foundational things like food and energy production seem that they'll take longer for AI to have impacts on. The energy
challenge is still important.

[[ireland]] [[politics]] This generally confirms my intuitions about under investment but ya.

> The principal of a north inner city Dublin boys’ school was among those who received this message. He has little doubt
about the intent behind this message. It was designed to inflame.

"We have had years and years of under-investment in areas like the northwest inner city and now there are insidious
forces looking to harness the disaffection that is there among some young people and their parents and to direct it
towards splinter issues, such as racist issues," this principal says. "These people are not from these areas but they
blow the dog whistles."


Also, a thought on [[chaos]] is the idea that any seemingly normal event can have drastic repercussion an element of
chaos theory. For instance, the knife attack in Dublin triggering riots. It's non-linear in the response. Similar to
bugs in code, some are local, have linear (same manageable) response while others take down production. Is there a
grounding to this notion (also its something discussed in [[creativity inc.]].

Reading: https://www.openphilanthropy.org/research/how-much-computational-power-does-it-take-to-match-the-human-brain
[[ai]]

> Neurons are cells specialized for sending and receiving various types of electrical and chemical signals.
> These signals allow the brain, together with the rest of the nervous system, to receive and encode sensory information
> from the environment, to process and store this information, and to output the complex, structured motor behavior
> constitutive of task performance

A neuron is a weird cell with a soma and dendrites around the cell membrane. It then has a long neck axon with synapses at the end.

A typical synapse forms between the axon terminal of one cell and the dendrite of another.

The cell regulates its electrical potential through pumps that control the flow of ions within it.

We still don't know a lot about the brain because:
* Can only record spiking of neuron activity in sections of the brain.
* Can't consistently monitor multiple sections of the brain at once.
* How do animal brains scale to ours.
* We don't know what high level tasks are performed by different circuits.

There's a claim about trying to discover the function of a micro processor from schematics which I'd be interested in
learning more about.

The author notes that you can approach from the deterministic viewpoint and ask well, what more do we need? and search
for it (they have been unable to replicate worm brain despite cataloguing all neurons). Or you default to the fact that
the brain is complex but its more on can we capture the simplifications that matter (what matters in the post).

The author takes tasks with clearly defined inputs and outputs as this simplification. Defining tasks is tricky in most
cases but if we can define them it seems that's a marker that it can be done.

> The aim of the report is to evaluate the extent to which the brain provides evidence, for some number of FLOP/s F,
> that for any task T that the human brain can perform, T can be performed with F.


