---
title: 04/12/23
date: Mon Dec  4 09:07:48 2023
tags: [ai, programming]
---

What are my weaknesses as a developer?

AI as helping to solve 'wicked problems'. The right answer is ambiguous.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wvvMmLzzhqg

Back propagation in software development. Like iterating with users can back propagate into code. Based on feedback from
users and translating it into assumptions of the system and update.

### How Do I Envision AI changing software?

I see the software development lifecycle as an interaction between interfaces. Using my own work as an example. I write
React code that is used by users who give feedback, which I write code for and so on.

Crucially, they can provide support in the software lifecycle so that the real value of the applications being developed
can take priority.

> Unburdened by the undifferentiated heavy lifting of tasks like upgrading Java versions, developers can focus on the
> creative work that drives innovation [^2]

* Once something has an interface an LLM can interact with it and it can be iteratively developed through natural
  language.
* User feedback or interaction with a software developer can be used to iteralively develop software in a kind of
  'backpropagation' [^1].


#### Case Study

I'm developing code for a UI. Replace me with some agent that can write code. Deploying the code involves interaction
with remote servers but interaction with AWS, through API's (specified by docs) could, theoretically, abstract this. A
feature request is posed in natural language to the agent (developer) through interation on designs on the UI the final
code is agreed upon. It could then be provided to a 'tester' agent. If it passes these test its offloaded to a
deployer/operations agent who's in charge of deployment. The whole process could have an overseer agent (like a devops
engineer) to have a differing perspective.

[^1]: Peter Norvig (above)
[^2]: Werner Vogels (CTO Amazon)
