---
tags: [health, fitness]
---
### Rate of perceived effort (RPE)

RPE is a measure of stimulus in the SRE curve.


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G8r_XtQhNP0&list=PLuaueQcZ84cYYcwrKomu5j4PfspWH9ylf&index=2

The idea of the performance/time curve is something I've seen in [[Overcoming Gravity]]. You have the initial stimulas, then recovery, then adaption. SRA curve.

So the SRA curve changes based on the specific adaptions you're looking for (strength vs hypertrophy).

* Force output: long recovery. CNS fatigue I'm assuming.
* Technique: low intensities, fast recovery
* Hypertrophy is a lower recovery time.
* Soft tissue destruction takes really long to recovery. Something that accumulutes over time. Need a deload or break
  from training.

Load management via RPE.

### Rules

1. The higher the frequency of a lift, the lower the average RPE over a week.

The higher the stimulus in a session (the higher the RPE) the longer the recovery time. So in order to get adaption you
need to account for this throughout the week.

2. The higher the loads (objectively, as in, weight), the lower the average RPE over the block.

Top set is 6 reps say. Over the course of 4 weeks you might have RPE's of 7, 7.5, 8 and 9
Top set is 2 reps say. Over the course of 4 weeks you might have RPE's of 5.5, 6, 7 and 8.5

This is for peaking at the end.

3. The higher the objective loads of assistance work, the lower the average RPE over the course of a block.

My current goals are to get greater work capacities with pull ups.
