---
tags: [career]
---

## Tue 13 Feb 2024 05:56:30 GMT

I've given up on my Coursera course for PGM's for now. What the hell am I interested in? What kind
of problems do I want to help solve. I thought I could do my job w/o thinking too much but I'm just
finding that difficult. I know its just a matter of creating meaning internally.

What might the problem be:

- solving the worlds most important problem myself: A slightly grandizing way to put it but
  generally, its not that I feel I'm wasted toiling at something and that I need to be focused on
  the worlds most important problem. I feel I can accept making contribution to _problems I care
  about_.
- I'm not very good at my job: the growth mindset is when you're constantly learning and things
  always feel a bit difficult. I'm a proponent of this and aware of its necessity in getting better.
  It's logical then to assume that just effort and experience is all I need to become a good
  software engineer. That, and patience.
- I don't want to become a software engineer: The career track for a software engineer is kind of
  boring to me. But at times it can feel exciting. The end goal is getting good at processes more so
  than code (although thats a component). Processes are super important in creating business value
  (both quality and quantity) consistently. It's the fluctuating notion of the business value being
  created that might be intermittent for me.
- I'm an emotional creature: theres the strong chance that I'm being driven by my emotions and
  hormones (well, it's more of a tautology) in terms of my decision making. This makes me feel
  somewhat hopeless that any decision I make is the right one.
- I struggle with the lack of tangibility of my work: It just seems so pointless to me at times.
  Like, its some sort of weird emergent phenomenon we humans have created to make ourselves busy.

What could help?

- I've tried (a small bit) to start producing what I think I want. I'm not really producing enough
  at all. In fact, I'm producing nothing.
- Just fucking commit to something and do it. Why's that so hard?


AI doesn't need to outcompete you in your specific task.
#career
https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2024/02/a-periodic-reminder-of-your-pending-competitive-inadequacy.html#comments
