---
id: "2024-01-13"
aliases:
  - What is it that I like/dislike about my job?
tags: [career]
---

## What is it that I like/dislike about my job?

It's worth going back to some Paul Graham on this
[[articles/pg_great_work]]

From [[articles/pg_love]]

* PG says the upper bound is finding something you love doing because of a long run payoff, or that its progress
  toward something noble, or that you feel is important.
* Then, the lower bound is doing something that passes that marker of at least as productive as being totally
  unproductive.

And the 80K hours advice for your dream job:

* Work your good at
* Work that helps others
* Supportive conditions

I think fundamentally, I don't think I tick these boxes as much as I'd like. At least I can't frame
it to myself that I do.

> The rule about doing what you love assumes a certain length of time. It doesn't mean, do what will
> make you happiest this second, but what will make you happiest over some longer period, like a
> week or a month

This highlighted bit is a thin I relate to a lot at the moment:

> As a lower bound, you have to like your work more than any unproductive pleasure. You have to like
> what you do enough that the concept of "spare time" seems mistaken. Which is not to say you have
> to spend all your time working. You can only work so much before you get tired and start to screw
> up. **Then you want to do something else — even something mindless. But you don't regard this time
> as the prize and the time you spend working as the pain you endure to earn it.**

Work is not my favourite thing to do, therefore its hard to do a good job at it. Theres a tension
though because it feels, at times, like I would like it if I applied myself but I'm scared or
apprehensive about applying myself too much in case it's all a big waste of time.

Part of me says, I'm OK with being average if it means I can spend more compute cycles on other
things like reading etc. but it's hard to maintain that balance and still feel like you're good at
your work and/or you're doing great work. Because you're not.

Like

-

Dislike

- I don't really feel good at what I do. More, I feel non-optimal for some of the tasks I've to do.
- I feel that some of the work I do is useless. That it should be replaced by a machine. Why does
  this prevent me from doing my best work in it at this current moment?
