- #physics
- #eli5
    - Newtons second law
        - If we imagine ourselves in empty space. We place and object in this space. If the ball was falling, it remains falling, if its resting on something it stays at rest. We notice in nature that objects have an interaction between them causing each object to change its __motion__. Inertia is this idea that the object in free space will not doing anything outside its current state unless its acted on by a force. What Newtons second law describes then is how to we determine the magnitude of some interaction on the object (if there were to be one). We notice that objects have varying degrees on ease in switching it from its current state to a new interacted (by a force) state. We call this degree of difficulty mass. 
        - So now that we notice theres a property of the object that directly impacts the interaction process. What else comes into play in determining the interaction? Because we are describing motion (the effect of the interaction) there is a degree of motion that happens. So we have the inability to move the object from its current state mass and to what degree we deviate that motion. Are these all the variables required in determining a magnitude for interaction? According to Newton, yes.
        - The force varies with a new property of the object then. Its mass and motion. If we were define how much we want to change the objects motion we could say. Change its current velocity from $$v$$ to $$v'$$ whether thats a deviation in path (resulting in velocity vector changes) or a speeding up and slowing down on its current path we need to know the change we're looking for. To get the most accurate force we want this $$v' - v = \delta{v}$$ get this change over the smallest epoch. To do this we use calculus. The change in velocity then is actually acceleration. With all this we can say the interaction needed on an object of a mass m to move it from its path to new velocity v is proportional to the mass times the acceleration. The factors used in determining this are tightly constrained buy speed and distance and a new property mass which is fundamental to variation in the force.
        - So we want to change the objects acceleration by this much but must take into account the difficulty of this by scaling it by mass. So the higher the mass, the more force required to achieve a given change in velocity.
        - motion of the mass
