- [[Tyler Cowen]] #podcast
    - [[Balaji]]
    - Interesting podcast discussing remote work, funding by VC
    - Balaji believes that small countries will have an upper hand in the tech future.
    - I like how he referred to some eastern or non standard western countries being vaccinated
      against extreme socialist ideology like communism.
- [[thoughts 🤔]] Theres something so fascinating about random places. Specifically in America. My
  mind struggles to grasp the day to day life in a place like Tupelo Mississippi. What do people get
  up to there, what is the main order of business, is it a commuter town, does it have its own
  little economy. I find it kind of intractable to imagine thousands of these towns so far away.
- Interesting https://www.improvethenews.org/ [[Max Tegmark]]
- {{[[DONE]]}} [What is economic growth](https://ourworldindata.org/what-is-economic-growth) [[Max
  Roser]] [[May 14th, 2021]] [[May 15th, 2021]] #economics #growth
    - an increase in the production of goods and services that people produce for each other.
    - We all have very specific needs or wishes for particular goods and services. Some needs arise
      from bad luck, like an injury. Others are due to a new phase in life – think of the specific
      goods and services you need when you have a baby or when you take care of an elderly person.
      And yet others are due to specific interests – think of the needs of a fisherman, or a
      pianist, or a painter.
    - All of these goods and services do not just magically appear. They need to be produced. At
      some point in the past, the production of most of them was zero, and even the most essential
      ones were extremely scarce. So if you want to know economic growth means for your life look at
      that list above.
    - **Economic growth describes an increase in the quantity and quality of the economic goods and
      services that a society produces**
    - When we get up to brush our teeth and put on some toast, thats a service and a good. These
      can't really be counted as parted of economic growth though. The dividing line is called the
      production boundary
    - __Economic goods and services__ are those that can be produced and that are scarce in relation
      to demand for them.
        - Considered useful by the person who demands it.
    - Growth, production of those products that people produce for each other.
        - Because economic goods are scarce human effort is required to produce them. There is an
          opportunity cost.
        - Increase in **quailty** and **quantity** of __useful__ goods (or what is considered
          useful)
    - How would I go about measuring growth? how much money people are getting on aggregate for
      labour? assuming all labour produces some good or service.
    - Roser does a good job highlighting the difficulty of defining a measure for growth.
    - # Measures of Growth
        - measuring access to particular bunch of goods and services (what might be considered
          fundamental)
            - Lots of variation in what people consider fundamental so bunch will always be somewhat
              inaccurate.
        - "measuring people’s income is a way of measuring the __options__ that they have, rather
          than the __choices__ that they make."
        - Ratio between income and price of goods
            - making things more affordable, paying less for a good increases options that people
              have
            - the ratio between the nominal income that people receive and the prices that people
              have to pay for the goods and services – is called __‘real income’__
            - real income = nominal income / price of goods and services
            - income is a measure of options not choices
        - Average income = average production
            - The total income in a society corresponds to the total sum of goods and services the
              society produces.
            - People use money to get goods and services, good and services are produced by people,
              therefore income (or the money people have) dictates production of goods and services
            - what about the income I save, is it not specifically spending we should measure. Or do
              we take saving as a service?
        -
