- {{[[table]]}}
    - Daily Metrics
        - {{[[TODO]]}} **__Only check email at specified time__**
            - {{[[TODO]]}} **__At least 2 hours deep work__**
    - Tasks
        - Blogs/Articles
            - Time
                - Activity
    - Reading
        - Todays reading [[May 19th, 2021]]
            - 11 - 1 : Clean up Jira's have a look at Kubernetes the hard way and if it can be done
              on AWS
            - 2 - 4: Faffed about, looked for ways to do KTHW
- Todays reading [[May 19th, 2021]]
    - [[Paul Graham]] #blog
        - Life is short
        - Advent of technology increases access to the things we like, have to watch out for
          addiction.
        - Life is too short for bullshit
        - Continuous quantity like time converted into discrete chunks with kids
    - [[Paul Graham]] #blog
        - Addiction
        - The process of creating addictive things is accelerating, the same acceleration that
          increases progress on the things we wan to want is increasing with things we dont want to
          want.
        - "which means increasing numbers of things we like will be transformed into things we like
          too much"
        - These two senses will grow further apart
            - "One sense of "normal" is statistically normal: what everyone else does. The other is
              the sense we mean when we talk about the normal operating range of a piece of
              machinery: what works best."
        - "We'll increasingly be defined by what we say no to"
    - Fairly moving image of child going off to concentration camp
        - https://www.nytimes.com/2021/05/18/arts/children-of-the-holocaust-who-are-anonymous-no-more.htm
    - https://www.irishtimes.com/news/politics/stamp-duty-hike-of-10-for-bulk-buyers-of-houses-set-to-be-approved-by-d%C3%A1il-1.4568821
        - #housing
        - Seemingly a good step in terms of stopping large buy ups of apartment blocks and houses.
        - Also it looks like an affordable housing promise slipped in the door
    - https://jacobian.org/2020/feb/18/innovation-execution/
        - #growth #innovation #blog
        - Observations:
            - Innovation challenges are rare
                - Despite what start ups want you to believe most new things are iterative as
                  opposed to innovative
            - Execution is not easy. Tackling a know problem with efficiency or new outlook can be
              simple but not easy
            - If you are trying to innovate you might need highly specialised people to truly make
              breakthroughs
            - This comes back to boring technology too, often those who can work on and use their
              brains actively on basic tasks can accomplish a lot.
            - {{[[DONE]]}} [[May 20th, 2021]] read this again
              https://mcfunley.com/choose-boring-technology
    - https://medium.com/swlh/bitcoins-proof-of-work-the-problem-of-the-byzantine-generals-33dc4540442
        - #blog #bitcoin
        - Byzantine generals problem
        - "the mere existence of this longest __block-chain__ is proof that the majority of generals
          (over 50%) were involved in its creation."
        - Each node in the blockchain as a general that wants to know if we have consensus on the
          latest transaction.
        - Im a bit confused. So, there is no inherent correct plan at the start,
        - There is agreement that the plan that has spent the most time in circulation is the agreed
          plan (because more generals have worked on it (this is the only way to increase the
          likelihood of solving the problem, one general can't just work extra hard, as long as
          compute resources are dispersed))
        - Im getting my concepts muddle up here. What is the goal?
            - How can we solve the consensus problem with lack of trust between individuals? There
              is no way to verify that everyone has heard the initial plan.
            - What we are saying now is, every time you get a plan, do some work on it.
- The earth spins at roughly 460 meters per second. So if the world stopped spinning, I would be
  moving at that speed into the nearest wall.
- Kind of interesting video on greek architecture https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nrRJkzXl4a4
    - [[Greece]] #ancient #architecture
- [[kubernetes]] [[Kubernetes the hard way]]
    - [[Kelsey Hightower]]
    - What do I need to provision on AWS?
        - Compute resources
        - A VPC
            - #networking
                - [[Amazon]] [[VPC]]
                    - Enables you to launch AWS resources into a user defined virtual network.
                    - It is logically isolated
                    - Can associate resources with public and private subnets.
                    - Control access through ACL's and security groups
        - Can I provision public key infrastructure on AWS?
        - VDC?
- [[Beginning of Infinity]]
    - Reading on the toilet, thought I got a nice grasp of DNA as being a general information
      machine and its adaption, being its knowledge. Knowledge in how to be something. Which is
      fragile to change, or in other words its highly adapted to its use case.
- #bitcoin
    - The goal of the cypher punks was to have a distributed system act as one system. This could be
      viewed as another form of consensus, so despite the individual nodes the system will operate
      with integrity.
    - [[Proof of Work]]
        - The work is in CPU cycles
        - In the spam case, we could verify that a certain amount of work has been done to send a
          message, as a spammer couldn't possibly be sending out 1000 of messages to 1000 of
          accounts
- [[Tyler Cowen]] #podcast
    - [[Pierpaolo Barbieri]] #banking
    - very smart guy.
    - Importance of just technology in banking as opposed to just crypto. Huge amount of cash in
      developing countries.
    - People just want to buy Netflix subscriptions etc. more fluidly
    - Also interesting to think about digitalising bank as making credit history a lot clearer.
- [[Tyler Cowen]]
    - [[Shadi Bartsch]] #china #classics
    - Very interesting thoughts on China I think.
        - Views on how China sees the western classics and how they are kind of manipulating them
          for their own needs. It interesting how, just from reading [[The Story of China]] where
          the historian manipulates for the current leader is still in play. To be fair I think this
          is less likely in the US (although still prevalent)
    - Also I should look at old testament translations and read shadi's Aeneid. It seems interesting
      how she might portray the female characters.
    - I really think it would make sense to learn some mandarin
- [[May 20th, 2021]] Could I use remarkable to sync notes with this?
- [[May 20th, 2021]] #productivity Is Roam too expensive?simple notes Jess Martin. Ah man Roam would
  be great if it wasn't so expensive. I think my thinking is messy.
    - Think about workflow. What does my work activity look like vs my interests, how do they work
      in tandem.
