- {{kanban}}
    - Time Plan
        - 11 - 1 : Look at solving one of the evervault problems
        - 1 - 2 : Lunch
        - 2 - 3.30 : Evervault problem
        - 3:30 - 4:  Walk
        - 4 - 5: note taking and workflow
        -  5 - : look into laptop, get shoes and hardware wallet
    - [[Reading/Articles]]
        - -
    - [[Ideas/Thoughts]]
        - How do I structure notes, are a lot of them superfluous 
    - [[Tasks]]
        - Possibly apply for evervault
- [[physics]] 08:50
    - **mass** When I move a __body__ with a net force there is a change in velocity of that body that is related to the net force. Through experimentation I see that there is a proportional change between the two. Because this proportional change is different between different bodies, it is a property of a body.
        - What if  the net force on one body exerts an acceleration a but on another exerts not acceleration at all? If there is a net force, it must change speed no matter how small. That change will be constant with the force
        - Newtons second law holds for constant mass. That is the relationship is defined for unchanging mass.
        - the quantity ma is not a force. "the vector ma is equal in magnitude and direction to the vector sum of all forces acting on the body. ? Moving car, thinking that a force of acceleration is holding you in your seat. Because its not inertial though this is incorrect 
- [[consensus]]
    - __A fundamental problem in __[distributed computing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distributed_computing)__ and __[multi-agent systems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multi-agent_system)__ is to achieve overall system reliability in the presence of a number of faulty processes. This often requires processes to agree on some data value that is needed during computation__
    - Its a system integrity problem. Some piece of data (in a database) for instance is susceptible to purposeful (or not) tampering throughout computation.
    - [[Byzantine Generals problem]]
        - https://marknelson.us/posts/2007/07/23/byzantine.html
        - https://www.mail-archive.com/cryptography@metzdowd.com/msg09997.html
        - If the correct value is the majority you are in luck. If somehow the incorrect value becomes the majority then the generals will use that (how ever in this case if it was to attack at a different time (as opposed to run away ) they might still win)
        - If no consensus reached, retreat
