- [[physics]] [[friction]] 07:51
    - Taking into account body interactions with a surface. In this case, one of the bodies is the surface and it has components of force that it exerts on the body its interacting with.
    - The direction of the friction force is always such as to oppose relative motion of the two surfaces.
        - The magnitude of **kinetic friction** increases when the normal force increases (the y component of the pull or pushing force contributes to the normal force ? )
            - Its proportional to a constant depending on the surface
$$f_k = \mu_kn$$
            - $$\mu$$ is a quotient of forces, therefore it has no units
    - When there is no relative motion between the surfaces there can still be the effects of **static friction**.
        - The static force is kind of elastic, or responsive to whatever force is taking the body on the surface out of equillibrium.
        - A force greater than $$f_s$$ takes the body out of equilibrium 
$$f_s \leq \mu_sn$$
        - If there is no applied force, there is no static friction
- [[physics]] [[fluid resistance]]
    - The direction of fluid (gas or liquid) resistance on a body is always opposite the direction of the body's velocity relative to the fluid. 
Fluid resistance at high speeds $$f = Dv^2$$
    - Is the fluid not acting from multiple angles though? Its not just on one axis. 
        - Is there not some part of the fluid force propelling the body forward? Buoyancy
    - Resistance force increases until its equal to the downward force (weight in some example). Then there is no further increase in speed.
- Evervault intro call
    - 
