- [[Tyler Cowen]] #podcast
    - [[Sam Altman]]
    - Might be worth exploring sam altmans interests in nuclear fusion
    - Very interesting views on the decline of Silicon valley and san Francisco, lack of social capital (common values, cultural context) and the poor effects of tech companies.
    - He also talks about the need for leaders to be making unpopular 'rational' choices how that can degrade the community over time.
    - He also answered an incredibly interesting question about the rise in simple narratives to explain the world to which he said that we have failed to create a vision of the future where everyone wins. Which i find very apt. he also relates this to his work with Open Ai in hopes that he can also help flip the narrative on AI.
        - Pessimism is always easier than optimism
    - 
- [[thoughts 🤔]] #career If I was to be anywhere or doing anything right now, what would it be, what would I be content with? Or should I create the world I want to live in?
    - Working on the next moon mission
    - Determining the make up of the cosmos
    - Contributing to nuclear fusion research and development
        - Working on fundamental energy breakthroughs
    - Developing AI ability or being involved in its development
        - Why is AI an inevitability [[?]]
    - Being around people that could maybe define a path and provide viewpoints on the world, who read more than me.
    - Being in a constant state of asking questions and having the freedom to go figure them out.
    - striving to give people meaning to the future [of humanity] to get a collaborative view of the future where we all win.
        - I want everyone to win, why dont others?
        - Also, how does scientific exploration help us achieve this?
- [[thoughts 🤔]] Is there a critical mass for a self sustaining economy, critical mass for products and services (whether external or internal to the location), if so, what is it? specifically with startups.
    - I think it would be interesting to analyse economic growth, to GROK it and see its implications
- [[physics]]
    - Learning about relative velocities this morning is sending me for a spin cycle, I guess its the way the world just is but thats hard to understand some times.
        - Thats kind of the beauty all the same
    - Along with the velocity of a stationary observer to a moving one relative to the earth. The observer its relative too is stationary though I suppose
- [[OPSENG-31655]] #work
    - Currently trying to grok how a service is upgraded in scylla, it seems to depend on whether its a workday stack component or a platform cluster with custom services.
    - We're mainly focused on the upgrading of components on the workday stack?
    - Where is the scylla cluster deployed to configured?
    - Does everything get deployed as a [[kubernetes]] [[service]] An abstract way to expose an application running on a set of Pods as a network service. ?
    - How do I find out the environment my scylla cluster is in?
- It looks like there could be a civil war in Israel based on the conflict in the Gaza strip between Arab and Jewish populations in Israel's cities. 
    - Its definitely on a knife's edge over there, its nuts.
    - wtf are we doing
- [[Ethiopia]]
    - " Simon Marks, an Irish reporter for The Times who is based in Ethiopia"
    - Abiy ahmed revoked journalists credentials and blocking coverage. Does he really believe this is the right way or is he just an evil person?
- #housing https://www.irishtimes.com/opinion/reits-are-not-the-enemy-and-emotion-is-not-a-policy-1.4563313
    - "willing to provide billions of euro of investment that will help build homes in Ireland; or they can frighten away international property capital by imposing taxes that would allow a Minister to issue a press release saying they had “stuck it to the Reits”.
    - There are 62,000 households on the housing waiting list which in a rough calculation it would cost €20 billion to build homes for. As it stands the vast majority of that is expected to come from international institutional investors.
    - If we want to turn off that tap then of course as a sovereign democratic Republic we can do so. But if that is our choice – and it seems to be implied by the housing policy of at least one major party in Opposition – then we better be ready for the implications of adding €20 billion to our national debt and the need to service that debt when interest rates rise, perhaps sooner rather than later if bond markets are spooked by our spending.
- Russians might clone scythians
- Eigenbros anyone can be a physicist [[physics]]
