Last week I started the week in one frame of mind and completely changed halfway through. 


## Focus Areas
Try to get 2hrs of probability in, reading of decision making book but also ocw.
2-4hrs in electronics lab.
Thinking about doing a reading marathon, just pick a book and study it for like 5hrs.

Consistently working on the Coursera course for this week to get it done by the end of June. One of the primary
motivators here is that I was unable to do it before.
"This Coursera course is kind of covering becoming better at algorithms while also trying to do something I couldn't do
before."
Going to try and finish this course this week.

Research work: putting the main thrust of cognitive energy, at least 3 hrs a day into research project.

Set aside time to look at workflow, vim etc. and the tools I use. This is along the 'high leverage' thinking and also
ksr know your tools.

## Books
Domain-Driven Design: Tackling Complexity in the Heart of Software
Kubernetes Patterns: Reusable Elements for Designing Cloud
Anatomy of a city.
Anna Karenina.
The Story of art

## Articles
SSC How Asia Works
Sacred, Robin Hanson: https://mason.gmu.edu/~rhanson/SacredAfar.pdf
Is Management a technology: 
The Nature of the Firm
Cognitive Endurance.

# Monday

Bank holiday

Focus on spending large part of the day on programming course.
Did about 5 or so hours. Managed to get 'first draft' of week 4 homework done.

# Tuesday


Research project work, depending on how meeting goes keep trying to socialize knowledge.
2 hrs prep for research in morning. What do I want to learn from the meeting?

Opamp lab.

3 hrs of work on programming course doing reviews and reading over notes. Really focus on improving what I know.

# Wednesday

Large push in the morning on programming on the research project. 2hrs of as focused work as I can manage.

2hr work on Coursera course. Still just really try to instill the basics, its hard to focus for long on that stuff
though.

1hr reading decision making book (under prob study).

# Thursday

If you don't want to eat it, just don't eat it conor.

2-3 hr of focused work on research project.
2hr work on Coursera course/general programming theory.

Could start the 'Learning how to Learn' after it?

# Friday

2hr research focused work.

2hr probability

