# Career

# People I admire

* Elon Musk
    * He is very smart, hard working, ambitious 
* Patrick Collison
    * Smart; flexible in terms of what Stripe can capitalise on; well-read and trying to solve problems
* Carl Sagan
    * Inspiring awe in people for the universe. Reveal the world to people like me.
      

# Problems

* Renewable Energy 
* Nuclear fusion
* Sustainable consumption and growth
* Housing
* Standard of living for a lot of the world
* Plastic pollution
* Food wastage and general inefficiencies in product wastage
* existential questions
* Nuclear war

# Ideas

* Year out
* Mini VC
    * Would in theory attempt to tackle all the above problems
* Some form of "start-up"
* Go back to college
* Switch up careers somehow

# What I would like to be in my wildest dreams

* Look to the stars, monitor them, learn the fundamental building blocks of the universe.
    * It feels selfish
    * Isolation from people who are solving hard problems
    * Not necessarily improving humanity as a whole, or trying to
    
# Notes

* At some point I want to learn the language of maths and how to use it to describe the universe (Physics)
* I also want to read as much as I can about those who came before me
* Both of these seem like a privilege as well as being really interesting. They also look at a higher level of humanity
  problems though. For instance, existential risks.
* I feel some social obligation to do things that help people but ultimately I don't really want to do, that I don't
  really find interesting problems. How do I reconcile this?
    * Its not optimal?
* Questions that are important to me? Ambition and ethics
    * Is this solving an important problem?
    * Does this help people?
* How do I go about picking somewhere to study Physics 
* Computation could unlock or help unlock a lot of things
* I think tackling climate change. Energy.
