Going to switch it up bit this week, looking at more giving a general plan sketch for my week.

Also, hoping to put the broadly defined goals in [self](../../notetaking/self) and then here is kind of the
implementation details.

This week could be a bit tricky because I'm just starting my Research Project. So consider this just an iterative doc,
test run.

Generally though I'm going to really try and finish this writing sample by the end of May because after that it's
unlikely I'll have time, nor want to give time to it.

Hoping to go for 40hrs in total which is about 2hrs a day until June 1st.

Also, looking to get some good gym sessions in, health is definitely a focus.

## Current interests

* Reading through BOI again, interested in exploring universality of computation.
* Becoming more educated on the dynamics of the Chip War.
* Electronics, getting some form of motor to work.
* Might try and work my way through 'Feeling Good' as a basic start to CBT book.
* Systems thinking and seeing examples of it.

# Monday

Workout in the morning most likely 7-8am.


Head into college for 9.30am to meet Dooley, I'm not even too sure I'm supposed to meet him but might just try and head
to his office.
Messaged him ahead of time instead of this.

* Possibly message NC about getting lab time.
* If I get some time to maybe look at how to diagnose whats running on my laptop
  as well as improve my tag searches. Backing up files.

Dooley absent til Wednesday. Looks like working all day on writing sample.


* If day turns out to be wide open, spend the whole day on writing sample.

Finish the day by looking at measuring mood and maybe gratitude journalling.

Finish up by 6pm. 

Got some bad news at the end of today about failing my exams.


# Tuesday

Gym work, focused on larger number of reps. 

Get 2hrs of writing sample work done. Focusing on working my way through the electric grid report.

2-3hrs of work on research project, reading, context building.

1.5hrs of probability study, most likely just watching a video.

Watch Jim Al-Khalili documentaries on Electricity.

# Wednesday

Larger squat day, 90kg for 4x6. Felt fairly OK.

Trying to get 2-3 hrs of good work on research project.

May need to make some time to ankify basic Chemistry. Might fit this in later in the day if I can, as part of research
work. Mainly to just focus on hydro carbons, or carbon.

Get 2hrs of writing sample work done. Focusing on working my way through the electric grid report. Maybe not too much
thinking just keep on reading and see what pops out.

# Thursday

Rest day from the gym, bit of zone 2, just a 10k and do basic right arm exercises. 

Got about an hour and half for writing sample this morning. Looking at microgeneration now and its feasibility. I'm
constantly fighting the notion that its a waste of time, that people know a lot more than me about it. Just trying to
answer a big question with back of the envelope calculations (think Gwern refers to it as a 'Fermi Problem'). 

Trying to get another 2hrs of decent work on research project although need to allow for the fact it might be a bit more
shallow as I've to interact with more people.

Trying to make time (~1hr) for probability study just to keep getting more and more comfortable with random variables.

# Friday

Gym work, may focus on higher number of reps for squats just to mix it up on the strength curve.

Meet with Breifini. 

Try and get 2-3 hrs of research project thinking in. Need to reach out to Mark just about to what extent just making
software for the summer is feasible. Can I make a little MVP simulating one aspect of the model?

Need to spend some more time working through probability, maybe look at information theory.

# Saturday

Gym work, going to try squat heavy but also make sure I get my rehab exercises done.

Find time to spend 1.5hrs of deep work on Irish history adding to Anki deck.

Going to try and give 2-3 hrs to writing sample.

Then 2hrs to wind energy assignment.

My focus has somewhat shifted to algorithms in the last week. Just in my exploration of computation.

# Sunday

Go for slow long run.


