## 16/04/23 19:12:42

# Summary

This morning I learned about meta, which is really thinking deeply about wanting the best for someone. It made me feel
comfortable to do this, it made me feel good. Once again, I'm always shocked by how easy some days it is to stop
struggling with thoughts, to just let them happen. 

* I started learning about the price system this week and using MRU to learn along with Sowell book. I had an idea that
  prices encapsulates information but not to such a core extent. I guess I still don't.
* One thing it's highlighted is that the fundamental difference between central planning and market systems is the
  allocation of resources and this is kind of why communism mainly doesn't work, not necessarily some ideology thing
  (although the ideology seems to imply centrality).
* My attention in general can be splayed around the place, important to be conscious of.
    * What I mean by this is intention in what I do. Really wanting to do it right. I often find that when I'm reading
      things or jumping around the internet I'm subtly context switching all the time. Another example might be doing
      college work. I rarely accept these days that this is what I'm doing. It's more an element of getting it over
      with.
    * There's always some sense in which there needs to be something after, or more to what I'm doing, some side project
      that I wish I was doing etc. kind of interesting to note as it can be emergent in career decisions too.
* The main theme this week was letting go. In the sense that I compare myself to others a lot, even if just
  subconsciously, I have a standard that I'll never reach. This can be fine but it's important to accept some amount of
  what I'd consider to be mediocrity, its balance I suppose thats hard to find.

# Actions from last week.

* Focus on college.
* Try and start some project with astronomy.
* Read more on How To Solve It.
* More notes on housing.
* Notes on why im interested in learning about Rome (to learn latin?).
* Ankify some Irish history.

---

# Actions

* Finish all assignments.
* 3 hrs brutality theory.
* 1 hr irish history.


# Excerpts
## 16/04/23 06:43:18

There's definitely a pattern for me of being disgruntled with my routine etc. I think it harkens back to a week I had
before where you just need to execute, like that ice skater, it's voluntary, I can think about how I feel at retros.

It's fairly obvious the things that don't have an aim I would think. None of the things I'm 'forcing' myself to do
aren't helping me in some way I don't think.

I know it's tempting but its important to not look at not doing meditation, or making an impulse decision as a failure.
As Aurelius says, all we have is the now and also it's just the antithesis of what mindfulness is about I feel. It also
gamifies things.

## 15/04/23 18:00:32

I find it hard to know if I'm doing enough some days. I need to start getting confident in some metric here.
I agreed with myself that I'd chill for this eve but still feel guilty about it.

or just doing something different

# 13/04/23 13:26:51
@daily

I think I should look at trying to read 'Basic Economics' by Sowell, it might help me with housing ideas as well.
I could start at using it as my foundation for economics notes and also anki stuff to just embed some definitions.

I might try making my own 'audiobook' of it.
