Thinking of putting an hour of probability study at the end of 3 working days this week.
Got my 1.5 hrs of Irish history in last week, which felt manageable. Will try do the same this week.

Roughly 2 hrs a day on wind energy assignment, this will kind of replace the writing sample work.

Going to try order some electronics stuff to get building something. I thought about having a go at implementing
algorithm in Penrose book.

# Monday

Gym went OK, really need to focus on hitting calories for the day and not binge eating, or kind of trying to cram. Just
eat carbs like a regular person in a moderate amount.

Trying to get 2-3 hrs of programming for research project done.

* Be cool to have searchable inventory data.
* Kind of trying to categorise types of data. Some of it is a derivative of other data. How do I account for that?

Try and get 2hrs of work done on the wind energy assignment.

# Tuesday

* Message NC about possible use of lab equipment
* Order electronics components!

Gym was fairly moderate, had coffee before, didn't get enough sleep probably, still focused on eating all three meals
ideally before 7/8. Trying not to eat a big bowl of porridge before bed!

Trying to get 2 hrs of programming for research project done. Will need to meet guys so don't expect too deep a work
here.

Get 1hr of probability problem sets in.

Going to go to tcd library for the evening looking at algorithm books.

Generally a bit hansy today, got some muesli to get more carbs in. Kind of anxiety eating but conscious of it, more just
drinking lots of hot water and dark choc.

Remember, you're happiest when you're focusing on something, when you're thinking, you don't have to give every thought a
voice or credibility.

>  Let nothing which befalls thee from without distract thee; and take leisure to thy self, to learn something truly
good. Wander no more to and fro; and guard also against this other wandering. For there are some too who trifle away
their activity, by wearying themselves in life, without having a settled scope or mark, to which they may direct all
their desires and all their projects.

# Wednesday

* Message Fiona about dinner.

Decent enough gym session, hit 95kg on squat for reps.

Bannach's matchbox problem is still kind of ruminating in my head.

Going to try and finish up wind assignment this morning (didn't manage to do this).

Might try and head into the college library after lunch.

* Going to try and look at some of the work around uncertainty, spend 1hr 30m doing this just to get a general sense of
  where the model should be headed, or what it should cater for.
* Any other time should just be programming, going to try finish up at 6.
* Not much programming, just a decent bit of thinking.

Try and stay reading or whatever until at least 10pm tonight even if tired.

Should maybe look at Hamming's 'You and your research again'.

# Thursday

Rest day from the gym, maybe go for a light jog if I feel up to it, should look at swimming at some point.

Got a good sleep, didn't run or anything, think its good to take a complete rest day even if it makes me slightly
uncomfortable.

Tried no oats, just muesli this morning, much easier eat, too easy. Think I could eat cereal all day.

Trying to get a solid 2-3 hrs of research work done this morning. Hopefully get another hour reviewing wind assignment
then just after lunch and submit it.

Get an hour of probability in before end of 'work day' at 6pm. Start reading about inference and Bayesian statistics,
not that I'm really ready but I do need to hurry up a bit. Also, thinking about Banach's matchbox problem again rather
than just do endless problems, where did I go wrong in my solution for this one might be more of a useful learning tool.
God knows I did the opposite with Physics.


# Friday

Hit 100kg for 4x6 in gym starting to feel better at it.

Had muesli instead of oats this morning and just put the protein in the milk.

Unsure how day will go as meeting about lab setup.

Didn't manage to study any probability yday so going to try get an hour in today.

Got about 2 hrs of work on research project done, need to finish draft for proposal and explain my steps to implement it
as a 'business process'.

* Need to read measure of man
* 'you and your research'
