This week I want to read through SSC How Asia Works review and incorporate it into my notes. (Thursday morning?)

Start looking at the writing sample again from the lens of designing a model to look at microgeneration impact
on the grid?
* This coupled with finishing 'The Grid'.

Try to get 2hrs of probability in, only got one last week.
Allow for 6hrs of electronics lab work at some point this week.

Going to try and get one swim in.

Started Coursera course I couldn't finish before, would kind like to do it but it would be a commitment.

Thinking about doing a reading marathon, just pick a book and study it for like 5hrs. Thought of maybe doing 'The Goal'.

Books
Domain-Driven Design: Tackling Complexity in the Heart of Software
Kubernetes Patterns: Reusable Elements for Designing Cloud
Anatomy of a city.
Anna Karenina.
The Story of art

Some articles to read this week:
SSC How Asia Works
Sacred, Robin Hanson: https://mason.gmu.edu/~rhanson/SacredAfar.pdf
Is Management a technology: 
The Nature of the Firm
Cognitive Endurance.

# Monday

Gym, going for 4x6 on 100kg. Maybe try barbell bench.

In the mater in the morning.
Top of forearm sore today 

Try to get 2hrs of solid research project work done, this is probably continuing the draft.

Get 2hrs of modelling course youtube in with the general goal at looking at microgrid generation modelling. 1 hour
reading of The Grid (notes/reading).
* Looking at python aswell.

# Tuesday

* Follow up on electronics kit.

Gym, focus on more accessory work, particularly get more shoulder exercises in.

* 2-3hrs of deep work on writing research proposal.

1hr going through questions to ask, or at least what to hopefully gain from meeting with the lads and chatting more
about the model.

* 2 hrs of work related to 'writing/model sample' about microgeneration.

1hr of probability videos in.

# Wednesday

Coffee before gym this morning, woke up fairly earl. My arm is sorer than usual these days.

2hrs of work on writing draft in the morning. Really need to start pinning down the details of what I'll actually do.

Spend some time in electronics lab after lunch.

Meet Dooley at some point, not too sure what time.

Get an hour of either coursera course or design patterns in.

I listened to an interesting talk about becoming a better engineer yesterday. Generally being able to fail fast and
focusing on high leverage tools resonated with my current point. 

I got some more books. Hopefully just generally group them. 

# Thursday

Rest day from gym

Meet Sean for coffee.

Need to have a bit of a rethink on what courses I want to do, what I want to commit my time too. This Coursera course is
kind of covering becoming better at algorithms while also trying to do something I couldn't do before.

Could start the 'Learning how to Learn' after it? I would like to have some time where I'm learning about fundamentals
of computers, maybe just even operating systems. Can't have it all I suppose. I might have to learn to say 'no' to doing
some of these things.

Get 2hrs of writing of draft done this morning, working through example of filtration process.

1hr reading decision theory book (considered probability related study) maybe quick review of matchbox problem at the
end just to verify understanding.

Spend two hours in the afternoon going through writing sample, systems thinking etc. 


# Saturday/Sunday

Really put the head down on programming course. Hope to get the week 3 and 4 of part A done.
Maybe go for a cycle.
