# Summary of the summary

* Getting back into college life.
* Just 'executing' not feeling too inspired for most of the week.
* Started to engage a bit more with study towards the end of week.

# Summary of week

* This week was very much a transition back to norm week. Monday and Tuesday were tough (especially Tuesday) getting
  into the grove of not having as much free time. Ultimately though, I got there. And I think Tuesday morning
  specifically, when I didn't want to get up, wasn't motivated at all and go to training was a good example of just
  executing and address later. 
* Now, it seems like the right move, and maybe it wouldn't but just the notion that I address it at some other time is
  good
* I made a start on notetaking things and am working on it kind of incrementally.
* I also think the idea of just time blocking for stuff, like, say, portrait review is good and works for me in that,
  there's time there for it, I can remove it from my brain. Of course, this only works contingent on me following up.
* My anxiety and stress levels were pretty good too. I didn't stress eat really, was fairly in tune with myself. I
  definitely found some days, just a matter of getting on with it, there wasn't too much inspiration. Although, towards
  the end of the week I tried to remind myself that what I'm learning is really interesting and something I would be
  doing anyways.
* Generally, my goal is to be able to engage in every class, that it stays at that right level of challenging for me
  where I can pay attention.
* I think this week I'd like to spend a couple evenings in the library. I thought it worked well, the one or two times I
  did it this week. Not just for studying but my own interests at the moment.
* On that point, my reading wasn't the best this week. I didn't really want to pick up farewell to arms at all just
  because of the mood I was in and felt it would put me in. Think the point is to just read it anyways. Although, in
  saying this, I've been thinking of maybe just having some book thats a bit easier, like Stormlight or maybe blue mars
  this week just to kind of look forward to.
* Another trend is making my life easier. From, getting gloves, to making sure I'm 'allowing' myself to eat at the right
  times. All these things just to allow me to focus on the study, or the jiu-jitsu or whatever it might be.
* On the training side of things, I've actually been enjoying jiu-jitsu and just getting back into it. I do need to look
  at it a bit more outside of training and just start being more dialetic with my trianing but I'm happy with my path, I
  feel a kind of ownership over it or something.
* Along with this I've started looking into Andy Galpin podcasts so I can start categorising my goals as adaptions and
  work my training out from there.
* I've been pretty comfortable with the kind of zettelkasten/tag set up I have for taking notes, just a singular
  document for a chunk of thought (like a study session) and just tag it so it's not lost. I just need a way of easily
  navigating the tags and that. But also, I plan on just using it to further a more formal master document that I would
  write.
* I've also started watching stuff from Ebert's great movies list, so it's kind of tangential to engaging with art a bit
  more which is cool.
* I have felt a small bit out of my depth at certain points during the week. Just with the results not coming on Wed. or
  Thurs. and the mark I got on assignments, this is just normal but hoping the next week is a bit easier.
* I also noticed that setting up the right study environment is important, not to rush into it just because I have it
  blocked on my calendar if I'm not comfortable, have something to be done etc.
* I also listened to Tufte on Sean Carolls podcast and think it's important to be conscious of visualisation and that
  when it comes to information, once again, maybe just time block something here.
* I've been trying to engage with photography a bit, with a more technical bent, as is my want. So looking at kodak
  process of SED.

 
# Actions

* Hoping to clean my bike.
* Clean my room.
* 

* Start thinking about goals for training.
* Start note taking document. [notetaking](notetaking)
