---
title: 02/07/23
date: Sun 02 Jul 2023 06:59:56 IST
---


Set up excel sheet for training
Set up reading list for July.


I'm slowly maybe my way through zen and the art...

Last night, he writes about the idea that value is the 'head' of the knowledge train. The leading edge that determines
speed on the track ( I would have thought it would be the track itself? ). This sounds similar to notions by Kuhn, that
values determine the facts we pay attention to.

I'm going to listen to more Phillip Goff on my run this morning. He starts from consciciousness and builds metaphysics,
rather than starting from Physics and trying to look at consciousness. Bertrand Russell is influential in his thinking
too. 

It's an interesting concept, what I'm not entirely convinced of is its expalantory power, essentially is it at all
useful as a concept. It's interesting to think about it being rational though. If our direct acquantince is
consciousness (in a Descartes sense) then it makes sense or seems a parsimonius argument (as Goff would say) to assume
that all things have this acquantainee. Or that its the fundamental building blocks of what we can know because we can't
know anything not derived from consciousness.

I'd like to get a foundation in epistemology or just the notions of explanations and theory laden observations.


# Research

I think what I'm referring to yesterday, in terms of how do I quantify the information content of the LCA result, it
would probably be that ratio in the Bayes' theorem.

With some set of priors across your outcome space, this posterior would be the updated priors with the information. In
this sense too its a measure of surprise (entropy).
