---
title: 23/08/23
date: Wed 23 Aug 2023 06:58:40 IST
---

Reading some Irish history this morning. I need to look at explaining things though to really understand them.

O'Grada's opening chapter deals with marriage rates and trying to infer Irelands population growth in the shadow of some
Malthusian apocalypse where population keeps growing despite lowering standards of living. The Malthusian model had two
relations. The return on labour is function of the land/labour ration. Increases in population are a function of income,
the higher the income, the earlier the marriage, more children. It seems that a viewpoint taken on Ireland was that
marriage was a 'welcome relief' from poverty so that young marriages persisted despite declining income. O'Grada points
to evidence that seems to combat this literary sources are often counter to statistical evidence.

Poverty was somewhat mitigated by the prevalence of turf and the potato. Such that people maintained decent health and
warmth despite tattered clothing. There was a lot of rural poverty though.

Theres an interesting tension in my engagement with Irish history. A foundation to the Irish people is the arts. But so
much of the emotion conveyed in Irish song is one of nationalism. I found this nice song, based on a poem. Maybe
engaging with the poetry can help.

> I will find Solace
A short while only
Among relatives
On a sea island
Walking the stone beach
Morning and evening
When I am not praying
In the west
I will find Solace
A short while only
Among relatives
Without sorrow
Without mind worry
Without loneliness
Without confusion
In the west
