---
title: 17/07/23
date: Mon 17 Jul 2023 09:28:26 IST
---

* In the protean workout system, theres this notion of also training your brain. I would look at acknowledging
  heuristics and biases as this.
* I think, in general, anki notes are more useful as questions, than facts or claims, at least for understanding book
  content. It highlights the concept _in the wild_.

I'm preparing presentation today. I really can't say too much about the output of the MC simulations yet. I would need
to do some more probing. The main thing is we have the _ability_ to do that probing now.

* I seems I need to really work on my presenting lol.
I have an emotional response to learning statistics, I feel like I just don't know enough! I'm discovered as to where to
even start. I don't know what is required for my current work.

How do I see statistics helping me, what do I feel im missing?

* The sample space is fundamental. For any probability problem, we begin with an idea of all the things _that could
  happen_. It's the starting point of reasoning about uncertainty.

[stop seeing yourself as the hero in a linear process](https://philosophyinhell.substack.com/p/instead-of-your-lifes-purpose)

* Article talks about approaching life as non-linear. That time is non-fungible, one moment is not the exact same as the
  next in terms of 'meaning'.
* Opportunities arise and fade away, its not this slow accumulation (aggregation/mediocristan). 
* Integrity as a core value, doing what matters to you. 
* > becoming a certain kind of person who can act appropriately in response to opportunities for meaning making
  
I gravitate towards the phrase _knowledge asymmetry_ for some reason.


Could do beef aswell? https://www.ethanchlebowski.com/cooking-techniques-recipes/double-steak-chipotle-bowl-homemade
