---
title: 21/08/23
date: Mon 21 Aug 2023 05:57:52 IST
---

## Log

All I've been focused on doing is my dissertation. I guess I just have such high hopes for it and its most likely not
going to be as good as I think it should be.

I don't know why it bothers me. I guess feeling sorry for myself these days. I'm not too sure about the job, I've no
money and I know that my dissertation is fairly crap despite the amount of time I've put into it. 

There's nothing really I can do about these things.

I've been listening to the 'ascent of money' by Niall Ferguson. He establishes the foundation of money on trust. I'm
hoping to understand better how credit has been crucial to economic development and have a more nuisance/educated view of
finance.

I'm still conscious of doing some Irish history reading I just having been great at keeping up the past few days. 


## Research 

When I think about my disseration what are the main points I'm trying to get across?
Think this question is important to figure out.

* The TCD LCI can be generalised with equations.
* This generalisation is useful for translating equations in the literature to code.
Is this it?

I've stated that the power of the Python model is its Turing completeness, how would I explain this? 
This means that it can simulate any Turing machine which is a formalism of an algorithm. Beyond just the simpler
calculation of the TCD LCI ... 
We can write Excel with Python but not the other way round.

Generalisation of the concepts in an LCA allows us to attach metadata, like assumptions to things.

The use of Python isn't completely necessary, but I feel like I should still have better reasoning for using it.
