---
title: 10/08/23
date: Thu 10 Aug 2023 09:50:36 IST
---

I listened to Matt Taibi this morning. He said that, when he was writing on the crisis, someone told him to look at it
as a big crime rather than governed by laws of economics. I think the latter part here is true and something I'm trying
to get used to. I think the former is rather just looking at it from races to the bottom (although greed definitely
plays a role). 

I've often had this thought that I'm not really supposed to be where I am. That I've exceeded expectations of what I
could be. This sounds more dramatic than it actually is. I just mean that I'm a very bog standard person by a variety of
metrics yet I am different or an outlier in the circles I'm surrounded by or were surrounded by. I shouldn't really be
reading what I read etc. no one really guided me, I did it myself. The problem is, I do it poorly, I'm constantly
regressing to that mean. Maybe that's why I feel like giving up sometimes, its that regression thats inherent in me.
Maybe thats what I need to consistently fight and it will never go away. Or maybe viewing my 'regular' self as inferior
is unhealthy.

## Research 

* Need to try and get some input distributions to use and rationale behind them.
* Probably need to sharpen up the code a small bit. Should I work on the naphta and propane purification parts?
* Whats next steps, how do I move towards finishing the disseration? What is it I'm missing at the moment?

The three broad categories of uncertainty in the LCA literature don't seem to offer more clarity as it seems that the
same uncertainty goes under different names in different reviews (igos?). Igos defines the uncertainty classificaiton
similar to warmink. Maybe this claim can't be backed up. Maybe its more that the modelling route has a better framework.

This morning I'm reading lit to back up claims about need for uncertainty in my introduction. As well as just general
reading.

Struggling to figure out where I am in the structure. Need to rethink points to be made a bit I think. Just to inform
reading.

Tried to understand fuzzy numbers again, or at least why they offer anything over probability distributions. Failed.

> ISO 14040 describes the ”principles and framework for LCA”, while the ISO 14044 “specifies requirements and provides guidelines” for LCA

That probability is the only language for uncertainty is disputable. See Ross and Booker.

My hope is to cut the bullshit linguistic definitions pretty quickly, at least provide simpler definitions.

### Points to be made

* Why uncertainty analysis?
    * What an LCA is, what the TCD LCA is and how it contributes towards liams and arons goals of transparent LCA.
    * What an LCI is and how it relates to deterministic computer models.
    * Why uncertainty is important for deterministic decision support models.
* What is an uncertainty analysis generally.
* What is the current uncertainty analysis done in LCA's.
* What uncertainty analysis will be done here.

Watching

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L7bYsHBgb-M

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cU4Cd8CGiaM&t=525s
