---
title: 30/07/23
date: Sun 30 Jul 2023 06:56:52 IST
---

## Summary of week

Its more the norm now that the week doesn't feel too productive. I'm frustrated with how little I get done in a day. I
do think I'm trying, most of the time anyways. A lot of the skills etc. I'm trying to build aren't just overnight
things, I need to reasonable with myself and patient and enjoy the journey.

* I'm not getting reading time in before bed. I'd like to be more consistent with this. Try and read some fiction too
  see if it makes a difference.
* Be aware of traits I see in those I admire and crafting those in myself (something Cal Newport talks about).
* Curriculum for learning data analysis/causal inference.
* Curriculum for learning classical mechanics, specifically, to get familiar with using differential equations to model
  systems.
* I need a workflow that backs up my notes somewhere.
* Reading textbooks will be a primary focus for August.
* Way to incorporate spaced repetition when reading on the Kindle.

I'm reading through my 'year review' for 2022, the goals I've set a broadly similar to now. It's funny how some thoughts
can seem novel. Like this is a thought I had that very much aligns with what I gained most of all from listening to Sam
Harris, that you dont have to pay attention or give importance to every thought:

> Another theme that's running through my life at the moment is the simple notion that 'my thoughts are not me'.

Also, changing ones frame of mind is so important, so often I'm afraid to do it

> Throughout the process of preparing for the competition, I found that when I reminded myself that, I'm voluntary doing
this and/or I don't need food, I'm actually not tired etc. it kind of got rid of a cloud of self-pity. It harkens on
what Tooze talked about, just convincing yourself that this is something you like doing. I think in a lot of cases this
can work, I think maybe it can be that simple for me sometimes. Similarly, the ideas from the Philosophize this podcast
on Kierkegaard. Finding a path and just sticking to it.

