---
title: 11/08/23
date: Fri 11 Aug 2023 06:41:39 IST
tags: [derek-sivers, tim-ferris]
---

* I should try and produce graphs today to actually put in my paper.
* If you feel you can't put any bounds on the input, does this mean you shouldn't even try at all?
* Need to look at answering the question, how do I use the code?

Listening to Sivers on Ferris, talking about network security. I need to start looking at DevOps roles/ network engineer
roles.

Sivers uses the idea of the 'press secratary' in the brain, that beliefs are so transitory and not objective, you can
pick and choose them. Even things you tell yourself. I feel this sometimes when i feel I 'must' take the stoic mindset
because its the 'right' answer. None of the answers are right, you kind of just have to pick what you want.
Sivers says that once you choose a belief you can find evidence for it (as you can with any other one).

They also talk about having a 'virtual mentor' almost like the rubber duck in programming. Imagine asking your mentor to
solve your problem, trying to account for what they might say to obvious points that come up. Doing this exercise
normally solves your problem.

'Good enough' is an important heuristic that they discuss, choosing what it is you want to optimise in your life. Tooze
talks about this too for his work.

## Research

Code revolves around functions or 'ys'.

Going to try work on some of the methodology section today.

Specifying y's is hard, but that's ultimately what I''m trying to generalise to.

The third 'point' in the intro is to use well known techniques for uncertainty analysis rather than the vague linguistic
terminology of LCA stuff becuase it doesn't offer any form of representation apart from just stating it, its not very
actionable.
There might be a crossover here with uncertainty analysised in the IPCC report where they use linguistic forms of uncertainty.
