---
title: 20/08/23
date: Sun 20 Aug 2023 06:15:10 IST
---

## Summary of Week

This week has just been focused on writing my dissertation, with some irish history.

I feel I've a better understanding of the halting problem and how it affects our understanding of the world now. An
algorithm is a state space and a function between states. If we look at any phenomenon in the universe that we want to
describe we try to symbolically represent different objects etc. this becomes a description of state. The function that
is fully defined for all states is undecidable. That is, creation of a process to go from state to state in our
representation of the real world is undecidable. We can do it, but the question of knowing if we can do it is
unknowable.

Huberman has a nice podcast with Lex. He's a really intelligent guy obviously. I found his thoughts on non-overt
displays of conflict interesting. The idea that we keep an internal scorecard that we don't communicate. If I do
something for someone, or i feel they've wronged me my actions in the future are controlled by a balance sheet that I
feel I should be allowed to this or that as part of some contract implicitly.

## Research

Need to start finishing up results and discussion and determining the structure of this section.

So I'm going to talk about input correlations and then choosing input distributions so discussing papers that summarise
what distribution are commonly chosen and why and then exploring ideas of elicitation. Then, something on representation
of uncertainties I think.


