---
title: 05/07/23
date: Wed 05 Jul 2023 12:12:56 IST
---

Presentation came and went. I think I could have been a bit clearer on my points. I'm worried that I'm dillusional in
terms of what I'm doing. That it's actually not something useful.

Need to have a think of why my code is very slow.

Hard to get going today, probably because of feelings on presentation. Also, haircut not too great. Also, didn't get too
much sleep. No reason to hold myself to a lower standard though.

https://matt-rickard.com/reflections-on-10-000-hours-of-programming

Watershed (for a job).

## Decision Theory

I'm getting more intuitions day by day about preferences and how they arise.

## Meeting Today (2pm)

Hoping to convey the model I'm working with.
Show what it can maybe enable us to do.

In theory, that anyone can do this but I might be packing a bit too much in.

Am I trying to teach them Python?

### Shared Language

The Unit Process, flows all these concepts from LCA are used as a general template when I was looking at recreating the
model you guys developed.

* My goal is to create the templates in Python
* when an actual unit process comes along, like say, the filtration process I can create Unit Process object and run it
  like a 'real' unit process. 

Any time I 'create' a unit process or flow its just an attempt to define Python object that represent something in the real world.

### Example: Mass balance

Presented with the idea that fuel production is mass balance, how might I represent that in Python?

This Mass is 'mutate' by different things along its route to SAF. So if we imagine something taking chunks and
rearranging the mass.

Create a Mass type.
Have functions mutate it.

And also assumptions.

### Uses

Show it being 'stress tested'.

Show the pertubation analysis.

# Research

Reading formalism of LCA as matrices. I'm not too sure the benefit this offers. It's definitely nifty.
It could slot nicely into the code. If there were advantages to it. What would need to be in place to use this approach.
