---
title: 29/06/23
date: Thu 29 Jun 2023 09:17:39 IST
---


### Quality

Pirsig talks about Quality, I don't quite have an intuition yet on what he means. I'm thinking he's describing a
relation between object and environment. Of course, it can't be defined so I'm not trying to define it, more circle the
drain.

It seems that if he's not talking about aesthetic quality then he's talking about a relation between sense making and the
'real world' like Russell talks about.

### Project related 

I've been trying to hold the notion of 'tacit knowledge' in my mind as it relates to the modelling I'm doing. My goal is
to replicate a kind of agent in code that works through the fuel production cycle and uses their knowledge to explain
this process and give numbers with lots of caveats. I'm influenced here by my reading yesterday evening on agent based
programming, I think anyways.

To move forward, I probably need to get clear on the goal output. What is trying to be acheived. 

Represent the uncertainty of output of an Unit Process where unit process is the definition given under the LCA
standard. Integrate knowledge of that unit process and assumptions made to generate this output uncertainty.

For now, might describe the tacit knowledge as the assumptions made. So the goal would be to integrate the assumptions
needed, where they are necessary. It's my belief then that uncertainty is modelled through these assumptions. 

Mechanistic: numbers and functions, propogation of uncertainty, multivariate calculus etc. Involves stochastic
modelling, fuzzy data sets (?), analytical (which I'm taking as the standards approach).
Qualitative: how those inital numbers are chosen. I think this requires more reading on understanding the limitations of
defining uncertainty.

In mid July Stephen has said that's when we'll agree on an uncertainty model. This seems to me the mechanistic aspect of
calculation.

side note: https://www.coursera.org/learn/game-theory-1
Got my left side is much stronger than my right.
Explore extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence along with Russell stuff from yesterday.

Enabling better decision making. What is required to enabling better decision making and how does analysis of
uncertainty of an LCA improve this outcome? This is the overlap with 'decision making under uncertainty'.
