---
title: 27/07/23
date: Thu 27 Jul 2023 09:10:49 IST
---

## Energy Science Seminar

### Electroroute - Enda Molloy

* Subsidary of Mitsubishi. similarities with Japna, island nation importing fossil fuels. So it made sense to transfer
  irish skillset to Japan. 
* Build their own algorithms, in house infrastructure. Estimate 5m tonnes of CO2eq abated over 10 or so years.
* They provide balancing services to wind farms and solar farms.
* Develop solutions for commercial entities that are generating their own energy?
    * They sell balancing products to those who actually own the assets?
* Do they just focus on renewables?
* 40% of employees between 25-34.
* Electroroute academy a training program.
* Are we talking about trading futures?
* Who are the buyers in the market, grid operators?
* Surely traders will be replacing themselves by algorithms in the coming years?

### Advent technologies

* High temp. PEM fuel cells. Above 100C.
* Pretty impressive lots of patents and originating in Greece. The first> public listing from Greece on Nasdaq.
* Any fuel under any conditions.
* Aiming to push operating temp. to 240C, not too sure why.
* MEA heart of the fuel cell stack (like a processor) Membrane Ecltrode Assembly.
* General set of specifications for a fuel cell. Kind of like jet fuel. Cost is a major one for commercial viability.
* 40-60% of costs is the catalyst (Platinum).

### Hydrogen Ireland

* Energy systems modelling. All models are net zero 2050. Where you take a point in the future and work back.
* There wont be many new technologies in 2050, according to this guy.
* If we get rid of biofuels and ICE, what do we replace them with?
* The hydrogen ev has a smaller battery. Still has an electric motor. 
* Cars aren't the future for hydrogen for transport. Used where we need range. Think buses, HGV's.
* Need to upskill. All the technicians for recent projects have come internationally.
* Societal change will mainly be related to those immediately affected by Hydrogen development.
* Hydrogen storage at scale is really cheap.

### SEAI

* Apart from grants, SEAI work on data. Publish lots of data.
* Energy statistics looking at measurement, Energy modelling team works on projections.
* Balance is informed by 100's of surveys from all manor of sources.
* Balance thoroughness is due to the 'legal' basis of the balance.
* Ireland has a huge import dependency. Largely fossil fuels.
* Change needs to come from: _technology_, _behaviour_, _legislation_.
* Any imports are considered non-renewable.
* 'Legal requirements' is related to 'ring fencing' funding for national projects.

## EPA

* Declared climate and environmental emergencies in Ireland back in 2019.
* It's interesting that most people don't read the reports bodies like the EPA put out, but like Ezra Klein says
  (above). Its about *who* reads them.
* EPA graduate recruitment campaign.
* Trying to get specific about actions for people to take and communicating that to people.
* Is it about communicating the impact that climate change will have?
* I feel I don't even understand this.
* Good discussion at the end of this. Really get a sense that I'm in a room with people involved in making these
  changes (policy wise).

## Powerverse


  
