---
title: 10/07/23
date: Mon 10 Jul 2023 08:25:04 IST
---

Listening to an interesting podcast this morning that the role of a data scientist can be to create models or to
generate reports. Both really serve the usefulness of the output whereas the software developer looks at creating a
'robust' system with a longer more intentional lifecycle.

Maybe look at checking out Nassim Taleb's work again.

> Every profession is a conspiracy against the laity

From  https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/BF01405730.pdf

## Research

Do I know exactly why my model isn't aligning with Liam's?

The hydrogen calculation seems to be causing issues with vapor liquid separation calculation.

What is the goal when I'm reading these papers? To guide what I end up doing?

What would I do? in terms of which uncertainty approach would I take?

Could argue the case that having a flexible representation (like coding) might increase the reporting of uncertainty in
LCA's (as this is an issue) (Bamber et al.).

It would seem that a MC sampling approach is the 'standard' without regard really for optimality. I would have to do a
bit more research as what is optimal for our model.

So, do the basic, and then just write about what could be done?

## Probability

I'm starting the probability text book again, going to work through problems.

It's interesting how you might be able to infer someones belief by offering them gambles or bets. 

In Learning how to Learn, Oakley talks about strengthening neural pathways through practice. This is for technical
topics like using mathematical symbols where the ideas can seem abstract. The more you use them though seemingly to more
your mind can cope with them. The neural pattern gets stronger and stronger as you solve a problem over and over again.

Study something hard, take a break.

What are some problem solving patterns for probability?
### Memory

Working: immediate, holds 'chunks'. Not a great remember, like why you've to keep repeating a number to remember it.
Long term: Big warehouse, stores fundamental concepts and techniques. Moving info from short into long term needs spaced
repetition and practice.
Some talk about focusing your dreaming to try and understand. Sleep is also really important for developing neural
pathways.
