---
title: 20/06/23
date: Tue 20 Jun 2023 09:24:31 IST
---

@health
Might try the 'slow carb' diet, although, I'm not really willing to give up fruit. The cheat day seems kind of unhealthy
for me but it might be a good idea, given that it simplifies things slightly.

Slower carbohydrate's allow for more fibre which reduces time to break food down, reducing spikes in insulin. So rather
than looking at replacing carbs completely, maybe just look more at 'slower' carbs.
High protein breakfast seems interesting. Literally when you wake up. The only reason I wouldn't do this is because I
never really feel like eating at that time.

source: https://www.healthline.com/nutrition/protein-at-breakfast-and-weight-loss

@probability
The 'standard' that Lindley proposes is subjective, so its not a reference point.

It's a question of how meaningful the standard is, how much information does it really give us about the event. To try
and make it concrete. Alice tells Bob she assigns a 0.8 probability to an event. By the balls in the urn method, Alice
would be indifferent between this event happening and a black ball being randomly drawn from an urn with 80 black balls
out of a 100, so anything less than that many balls, shes taking that the event is more likely to happen.

There are two ways this could be interpreted by Bob. He thinks of the standard and says that he can interpret this event
happening aligning it with his own probability of 0.8 'feeling' (using balls in urn method). This 'feeling' is different
for Alice and Bob, does that matter?

If Alice seems to assign really high probabilities for everything she predicts and Bob is more conservative, then
is Alice's assignment any less or more meaningful?

[Person centered, vs the EA approach of anxiety over the correct resource use](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MNtqRbz-5c0)

I think, you can see in the 80,000 hours career posts that they do emphasise taking care of yourself first.
